TNIOP-52
ARTNAM
EHT
discipline for
The success that a trader achieves in the markets is directly correlated to one’s trading
discipline or lack thereof.Trading discipline is 90 percent of the game.The formula is
very simple:Trade with discipline and you will succeed;trade without discipline and you
will fail.
I have been a trader and member of the Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) for 20 years.
During my successful pit-trading career as a scalper,I traded in three different contract
markets:30-Year Treasury bonds at the CBOT,the S&P 500 at the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange (CME) and the Gilts at the London International Financial Futures Exchange
(LIFFE).Currently,I also trade the electronic $5 Dow futures contract on the CBOT as
time permits.
Although my formal academic education consists of a bachelor’s degree in business
administration from the University of Denver, I never considered myself to be an
extremely gifted student.I have no formal training in market technical analysis.I’m
unable to even set up a Fibonacci study or Moving Average study on a charting pack-
age,let alone know how to trade with such data.I have no formal training in market fun-
damental analysis.I don’t understand the economic causal relationship between the
actions of the Federal Open Market Committee and Treasury bond prices or equity
prices.
How,then,have I been able to succeed,day after day,trading the markets for more than
20 years? The answer is simple:I trade with discipline,and I respect the market.When
I’m wrong I get out immediately,and when I’m right,I don’t get too greedy.I’m content
with small winners and I’m accepting of small losers.
Just as I now mentor my trading clients regarding performance, discipline and
profit/loss management,I was mentored by one of the best traders ever to set foot on
the CBOT trading floor,David Goldberg.David was a long-time spread scalper in the
wheat pit and a principal of Goldberg Bros.,at the time one of the largest clearing firms
at the CBOT,CME and Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE).David taught me the
rules of trading discipline.I listened to his guidance and gradually,over time,became
more and more successful.The student has now become the teacher.
Provided by permission of SFO Magazine February 2003. ©2003 Wasendorf & Associates, Inc. • 3812 Cedar Heights Drive • Cedar Falls, IA50613
day trading
By Douglas E.Zalesky
Precise
Trading
Feature
Provided by permission of SFO Magazine February 2003. ©2003 Wasendorf & Associates, Inc. • 3812 Cedar Heights Drive • Cedar Falls, IA50613
The Wheel of Success loss of thousands of dollars. Atrader can ruin his entire day with an
inadvertent trade entry error.
There are three spokes that make up, what I call the “Wheel of Success”
as it relates to trading. The first spoke is content. Content consists of Once you have mastered order execution, though, it is like riding a
all the external and internal market information that traders utilize bike. The process of entering and exiting trades becomes seam-
to make their trading decisions. All traders must purchase less and mindless. Fast and efficient trade execution, espe-
value-added content that provides utility in making cially if you are trading with a scalping methodology,
their trading decisions. will enable you to hit a bid or take an offer before
c your competitors do. Remember, the fastest sur-
o
The most important type of content is internal vive.
n
market information (IMI). IMI simply is time t
e
and price information as disseminated by the n The third and most important spoke in the
exchanges. After all, we all make our trading t Wheel of Success is discipline. You must
discipline
decisions in the present tense based on time attain discipline if you ever hope to achieve
and price. In order to “scalp” the markets c s any level of trading success. Trading disci-
effectively, we must have the most live and ni pline is practiced 100 percent of the time,
up-to-date time and price information seam- h a every trade, every day.
lessly delivered to our PCs through a reliable c
e
execution platform and/or charting package. m Review the following 25 Rules of Trading
Without instantaneous time and price informa- Discipline. You must condition yourself to
tion, we would be trading in the dark. behave with discipline over and over again. Many
of my traders and clients read through the rules every
The second spoke is mechanics. Mechanics is how you day (believe it or not) before the trading session begins.
access the markets and the methodology that you employ to It doesn’t take more than three minutes to read through them.
enter/exit your trades. You must master mechanics before you can Think of the exercise as praying — reminding you how to conduct
enjoy any success as a trader. Asimple keystroke error can result in a yourself throughout the trading session.
#1 THE MARKET Trading with discipline will put #3 ALWAYS All good traders follow this rule.
PAYS YOU more money in your pocket and LOWER YOUR Why continue to lose on five lots
TO BE take less money out. The one TRADE SIZE (contracts) per trade when you
DISCIPLINED. constant truth concerning the WHEN YOU’RE could save yourself a lot of
markets is that discipline = TRADING money by lowering your trade
increased profits. POORLY. size down to a one lot on your
next trade? If I have two losing
trades in a row, I always lower my trade
size down to a one lot. If my next two trades are profitable, then I
move my trade size back up to my original lot size.
It’s like a batter in baseball who has struck out his last two times at bat.
The next time up he will choke up on the bat, shorten his swing and
#2 BE DISCIPLINED Being disciplined is try to make contact. Trading is the same: lower your trade size, try to
EVERY DAY,IN EVERY of the utmost make a tick or two — or even scratch the trade — and then raise your
TRADE,AND THE MARKET importance, but trade size after two consecutive winning trades.
WILL REWARD YOU. BUT it’s not a some-
DON’T CLAIM TO BE times thing, like
DISCIPLINED IF YOU ARE claiming you quit
NOT 100 PERCENT a bad habit, such as #4 NEVER TURN A We have all violated this rule.
OF THE TIME. smoking. If you WINNER INTO A However, it should be our goal
claim to quit smoking LOSER. to try harder not to violate it in
but you sneak a cigarette every the future. What we are really
once in a while, then you clearly have not quit smoking. If you trade talking about here is the greed factor.
with discipline nine out of ten trades, then you can’t claim to be a dis- The market has rewarded you by moving in the direction of your posi-
ciplined trader. It is the one undisciplined trade that will really hurt tion, however, you are not satisfied with a small winner. Thus you hold
your overall performance for the day. Discipline must be practiced on onto the trade in the hopes of a larger gain, only to watch the market
everytrade. turn and move against you. Of course, inevitably you now hesitate and
the trade further deteriorates into a substantial loss.
When I state that “the market will reward you,” typically it is in rec-
ognizing less of a loss on a losing trade than if you were stubborn and There’s no need to be greedy. It’s only one trade. You’ll make many
held on too long to a bad trade. Thus, if I lose $200 on a trade, but I more trades throughout the session and many more throughout the
would have lost $1,000 if I had remained in that losing trade, I can next trading sessions. Opportunity exists in the marketplace all of the
claim that I “saved” myself $800 in additional losses by exiting the time. Remember: No one trade should make or break your perform-
bad trade with haste. ance for the day. Don’t be greedy.
Provided by permission of SFO Magazine February 2003. ©2003 Wasendorf & Associates, Inc. • 3812 Cedar Heights Drive • Cedar Falls, IA50613
#5 YOUR BIGGEST Keep a trade log of all your trades #9 EARN THE Too many new traders think that
LOSER CAN’T throughout the session. If, for RIGHT TO TRADE because they have $25,000
EXCEED YOUR example, you know that, so far, BIGGER. equity in their trading account
BIGGEST your biggest winner on the day that they somehow have the
WINNER. is five e-Mini S&Ppoints, then do right to trade five or ten e-Mini S&P
not allow a losing trade to exceed those contracts. This cannot be further from the truth. If you can’t trade a
five points. If you doallow a loss to exceed your biggest gain then, one lot successfully, what makes you
effectively, what you have when you net out the biggest winner and think that you have the right to trade a
biggest loss is a net loss on the two trades. Not good. 10 lot?
If you have a
I demand that my students show me a proven
trading profit over the course of ten
methodology
#6 DEVELOP A I require my “students” to actu- consecutive trading days trading a
but it doesn’t
METHODOLOGY ally write down the specific one lot only. When they have
seem to be
AND STICK WITH IT. market prerequisites (set- achieved a profitable ten-day period,
working in a
DON’T CHANGE ups) that must take place in in my eyes, they have earned the right
METHODOLOGIES order for them to make a to trade a two lot for the next ten trad- given trading
FROM DAY trade. I don’t necessarily ing sessions. session,don’t
TO DAY. care what the methodology is, go home that
but I dowant them to make sure Remember: if you are trading poorly night and try
that they have a set of rules, market set- with two lots you must lower your to devise
ups or price action that must appear in order for them to take the trade. trade size down to a one lot. another one.
You must have a game plan.
If you have a proven methodology but it doesn’t seem to be working
in a given trading session, don’t go home that night and try to devise #10 GET OUT OF You are not a “loser” because
another one. If your methodology works more than one-half of the YOUR LOSERS. you have a losing trade on.
trading sessions, then stick with it. You are, however, a loser if
you do not get out of the losing
trade once you recognize that the trade is no
#7 BE YOURSELF. In all of my years as a trader good. It’s amazing to me how accurate your gut is as a market indica-
DON’T TRY TO BE I never traded more than a tor. If, in your gut, you have the idea that the trade is no good then it’s
SOMEONE ELSE. 50 lot on any individual probably no good. Time to exit.
trade. Sure, I would have
Every trader has losing trades throughout the session. Atypical trade
liked to be able to trade like col-
day for me consists of 33 percent losing trades, 33 percent scratches
leagues in the pit who were regularly trading 100 or 200 lots per trade.
and 33 percent winners. I exit my losers very quickly. They don’t cost
However, I didn’t possess the emotional or psychological skill set nec-
me much. So, although I have either lost or scratched over two-thirds
essary to trade such big size. That’s OK. I knew that my comfort zone
of my trades for the day, I still go home a winner.
was somewhere between 10 and 20 lots per trade. Typically, if I trad-
ed more than 20 lots, I would “butcher” the trade. Emotionally I could
not handle that size. The trade would inevitably turn into a loser
because I could not trade with the same talent level that I possessed
with a 10 lot. #11 THE FIRST Once you come to the realization
LOSS IS THE that your trade is no good it’s best
Learn to accept your comfort zone as it relates to trade size. You are BEST LOSS. to exit immediately. “It’s never a
who you are. loser until you get out” and “Not to
worry, it’ll come back” are often said
tongue in cheek, by traders in the pit. Once the phrase is stated, it is an
#8 YOU ALWAYS Never put yourself in the pre- affirmation that the trader realizes that the trade is no good, it is not
coming back and it is time to exit.
WANT TO BE ABLE carious position of losing
TO COME BACK more money than you can
afford. The worst feeling in
AND PLAY THE
the world is wanting to trade
NEXT DAY.
and not being able to do s