Dean LeBaron’s Treasury
of Investment Wisdom
30 Great Investing Minds
DEAN LEBARON
ROMESH VAITILINGAM
John Wiley & Sons
@Team-FLY
Copyright © 2002 by Dean LeBaron and Romesh Vaitilingam. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or transmitted in any
form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning or otherwise,
except as permitted under Sections 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act,
without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment
of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, 222 Rosewood Drive,
Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 750-4744. Requests to the Publisher for
permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
605 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10158-0012, (212) 850-6011, fax (212) 850-6008,
E-Mail: PERMREQ@WILEY.COM.
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard to the
subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not engaged in
rendering professional services. If professional advice or other expert assistance is required, the
services of a competent professional person should be sought.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
ISBN: 0-471-15294-3
Previously published in 1999 as The Ultimate Investor: The People and Ideas That Make Modern
Investmentby Capstone Publishing Limited, Oxford, United Kingdom.
Printed in the United States of America.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Contents
Preface ix
The Promises Men Live By• by Peter L. Bernstein 1
Investment Insights: Changing Styles across Time
and Space• by Dean LeBaron 7
CHARTING THE COURSE
Macro Tools
Chapter 1 Investment Policy 15
GURU • Charles Ellis
Chapter 2 Economic Forecasting 22
GURU • Peter Bernstein
Chapter 3 Risk Management 28
GURUS • Fischer Black, Robert Merton, andMyron Scholes
Chapter 4 Financial Engineering 36
GURU • Andrew Lo
OUR DAY WILL COME
Investment Style
Chapter 5 Active Portfolio Management 47
GURU • William Miller
Chapter 6 Growth Investing 55
GURU • Peter Lynch
Chapter 7 Value Investing 62
GURU • Warren Buffett
iii
iv Contents
BUILDING A BETTER MOUSETRAP
Construction Tools
Chapter 8 Technical Analysis 73
GURU • Walter Deemer
Chapter 9 Quantitative Investing 80
GURU • Robert Arnott
Chapter 10 Foreign Exchange 88
GURU • Richard Olsen
WE ARE THE WORLD
Investing with the Market
Chapter 11 Market Efficiency 97
GURUS • Burton Malkiel andEugene Fama
Chapter 12 Mutual Funds 105
GURU • John Bogle
Chapter 13 Indexing 114
GURUS • Wells Fargo, American National Bank,
Batterymarch Financial Management
TILTING AT WINDMILLS
Betting against the Market
Chapter 14 Fixed Income 123
GURU • Andrew Carter
Chapter 15 Short Selling 132
GURUS • Steven Leuthold andKathryn Staley
Chapter 16 Hedge Funds 138
GURU • George Soros
I DID IT MY WAY
A Different Philosophy
Chapter 17 Contrarian Investing 147
GURU • James Fraser
Contents v
FAR FROM THE MADDING CROWD
Diversification
Chapter 18 Global Investing 155
GURU • Gary Brinson
Chapter 19 Emerging Markets 162
GURU • Mark Mobius
Chapter 20 Venture Capital 174
GURU • Georges Doriot
I LOVE A PARADE
Investor Behavior
Chapter 21 Investor Psychology 181
GURUS • Richard Thaler andRobert Vishny
Chapter 22 Manias, Panics, and Crashes 189
GURU • Marc Faber
Chapter 23 Internet Investing 196
GURU • Geoffrey Moore
HOW TO SUCCEED IN BUSINESS
Corporate Behavior
Chapter 24 Corporate Governance 207
GURU • Robert Monks
Chapter 25 Corporate Restructuring 215
GURU • Bruce Wasserstein
Chapter 26 Initial Public Offerings 221
GURU • Ivo Welch
WE’RE HERE TO HELP YOU
The Government Factor
Chapter 27 International Money 231
GURU • Martin Barnes
vi Contents
Chapter 28 Politics and Investing 240
GURU • Edward Yardeni
FOLLOWING THE PIPER
Sharing Responsibility
Chapter 29 Investment Consultants 247
GURU • George Russell
THE FAT LADY SINGS
Analysis and Reporting
Chapter 30 Performance Measurement 257
GURU • Peter Dietz
Future Focus I: Ten Key Investment Issues 263
Future Focus II: Ten Key Global Issues 270
James Fraser’s Book Bag 277
Toolbar of Top Websites for Investment 280
Index 303
@Team-FLY
Preface
You are holding in your hands what we hope is a treasure. To us, it is. We are
sharing our friends, our heroes, and their wisdom with you. Depending on
future conditions, some of the wisdom will be invaluable... and some you will
wish you had not heard. But each comes from a noble effort to penetrate the
minds and insights of the best investors. And try to let each of them sparkle for
you as they do for us.
This volume began its life as The Ultimate Investor, published in 1999 by
Capstone Publishing Limited in the United Kingdom. We have updated many
sections but preserved the basic point that the personalities of great investors in-
fluence their selection of styles. In some places, we have changed emphasis since
markets in late 2001, when we are writing these notes, are vastly different than
in early 1999. The note of skepticism that underlay our observations in the first
publication may be a helpful enduring attitude, although experience in the past
few years may make it seem rather obvious.
But we are not trying to rewrite history or overcorrect. If the notes of 1999
seem too repetitive, we could have selected almost any other year in the last
decade or two and used it equally well as a basis for our observations.
We hope our points are useful to you today... and tomorrow.
We have tried to approach a moving target as best we can treating thirty
ideas and thirty-plus people. The ideas are not neatly bounded so that they exist
without important and active relations with other elements. Rather, they are part
of the market soup, boiling and vibrant, which is constantly evolving in the in-
terplay of mathematics and personalities. We can pretend that each element is
distinct only for the purpose of descriptive analysis. But, in the end, each mar-
ket instant and each investor has to reassemble the pieces to grapple with our task
of forecasting imponderable outcomes.
We have tried to simplify the ideas, at times borrowing from the writings
of the personalities or gurus who are associated with the ideas—and borrowing
vii
viii Preface
from the ideas of others. None of us as investment students and practitioners
lives in isolation: We are all part of the mosaic being analyzed, shard by piece.
At times, we may seem glib and cavalier. It is merely in our attempt to be
concise about things that defy precision.
So now that we have started with our limitations, what will we be doing to
merit your attention? Answer: give you a grounding in the ideas and people who
have brought us to today’s market understanding. These people have also shaped
tomorrow’s market. They might not know it yet but they—and others we have
omitted or do not know—set the base for innovation. You need to know them
and their work. They are your investment future—at least your future in ways
we try to understand for you.
Ours was a seamless collaboration despite living an ocean apart. We had
two in corpus (face-to-face) meetings and a daily dozen e-mail iterations. We
could have been sitting at adjoining desks swapping papers and marker pens
back and forth. Instead, it was done electronically. And we posted the chapters
on Dean’s website in nearly finished form for comment by gurus, potential read-
ers, and the publisher. It was possible for us and others to see the book arise in
its entirety as it neared completion. And we hope this openness will promote
more sales of the hard copy. We would do it again just the same way.
In our discussion of investment ideas, we talk equally about people because
it is the people who have the ideas. The best investment ideas, in our opinion, are
consistent with the psyche of the people who have them. The cliché “managers do
not pick markets, markets pick managers” refers to the possibility that it is the
style of the day that plucks some investors for greatness rather than the other way
around. The managers who succeed are most often confident of their views to the
limits of arrogance, hate to see their ideas diluted in the interest of diversification
(unless diversification was their idea), and are eager to display their market wit.
Mostly they are colorful characters, most known and liked by at least one of us.
In each chapter we describe an idea. Then we talk about one or two peo-
ple associated with the idea. We also introduce the counterpoint: the downside
and limitations of the idea. And we have asked each person discussed (where, as
in most cases, they are still around) to react and comment if they wish: Many of
our gurus have kindly taken up the challenge. Each chapter concludes with sug-
gestions for the next steps, if any—ideas for application and research—and rec-
ommendations for further reading whether in print or online.
In addition to our main chapters, we have two introductory pieces: one by
Peter Bernstein on the history of the markets over the past fifty years, which he
has kindly allowed us to reprint; and another by Dean on changing investment
Preface ix
styles across time and space. We have also included a discussion of ten key issues
related to the world of investing plus ten broader, more global questions, and a
selection of ten investment classics by James Fraser. In addition, there is a webli-
ography, a list of recommended investment websites for further study and some-
times fun reading.
—————————————
Between the writing of this book and its printing, the terrible events of
September 11, 2001, changed the world and our view of it. The world does not
have clearly defined boundaries. It is complex—mushy, undefined, dynamic, ro-
bust—with shifting shades of gray that cannot be defined in slogans of black and
white. Complexity scientists have the thinking tools to help and will flesh out
their ideas inot concrete policy recommendations.
To many, globalism is corruption, political repression, and American prof-
iteering. American readers should come to know more accurately the thoughts of
others and why they think them. Comment is needed from other places. Ideally
the United Nations (U.N.) should act as a clearinghouse but many governments
of the world are not representative of their people, and the U.S. disdains the
U.N. because of things such as its abortion policy and bureaucracy.
U.S. leaders are successful Darwinian–Newtonians—they understand
command and control; they know how to marshal force to beget force from de-
fined opponents; they are the successful generals of recent wars—and those have
been the most dangerous. If the U.S. finds that the world does not march to its
tune, it will pull away. A nation cannot network and be secure from all future
viruses. The only way is to separate. America first means America alone.
To investors asking what these conditions mean for the future, we offer a
few thoughts. We are likely to be moving into a long period when the return on
bonds is equal to or greater than the return on equities. This is not a bear mar-
ket forecast but, rather, an observation that capital raising may be from govern-
ments—we won’t hear the word “surplus” for a long while—and there is a
long-term argument for lower to no equity premiums. In a bear market—and it
is not a dispute that we have one, rather at what stage—people blame themselves
for the “error” and they have psychological instead of financial reactions, rather
like Elisabeth Kubler-Ross’s famous list of the stages of dying:
• Confidence that the market will come back
• Searching for confirming experts that the market will come back
• Anger at the market and at analysts with high salaries and conflicts
• Ignoring markets’ information since it is a long-term investment
x Preface
• Intense study of the market for the best exit time
• Selli