GOBINARY24.COM
BINARY OPTIONS
TRADING STRATEGIES
Strategies of Pros Explained for Dummies
GoBinary24.com
Joining traders from New York • Tokyo • Singapore • Toronto • Paris • London
Welcome!
Do you want to become a successful
binary options trader?
You are in the right place. In this e-book you will be
introduced to the top 10 binary options strategies. As well
as picking the most effective and easy-to-use strategies out
there, we have presented them in a fun visual manner that
is easy to understand, even if you don’t have much
experience.
Some binary option traders play the markets without any
solid strategies. We however, strongly recommend
mastering at least a couple of strategies and trading only
when strategy indicators are clear. By doing so you can not
only reduce your risk, but also significantly increase any
profits.
That said, always be aware of the other factors that drive
markets, don’t just follow indicators blindly!
And Remember that it’s okay to have losses – as long as
more of your trades are ‘In the Money’ than ‘Out of the
Money’.
TOP
RATED
SLIDESHARE
AUTHOR
GoBinary24.com
Joining traders from New York • Tokyo • Singapore • Paris • London
Fundamentals Why Binary
Why Binary options are becoming more
and more popular?
Simplicity
Binary options are generally simpler to trade than
other instruments. This is because you only need to
form a view on what direction the price of the
underlying asset will move. In comparison, traditional
options also require you to form a view on the
magnitude of any price movement.
Fast outcome
Binary options offer contracts with short-term
durations, from 60 seconds to 60 minutes. This
provides the trader with several investment
opportunities during a day. It also offers flexibility as
markets change over time.
Less risk
With the forex market, every time you enter into a
trade you risk the entire amount of money in your
trading account. With binary options, however, your
risk is always limited to the amount you committed to
that specific trade.
Multiple asset classes
A trader can access multiple asset classes such as
stocks, currencies, indices and commodities, and can
usually trade them whenever a market is open some-
where in the world.
No fees
Unlike with other trading instruments, there are
usually no fees or commissions attached to binary
options. Brokers make their money from the
percentage discrepancy between what they pay out on
winning trades and what they collect from losing
trades.
Fundamentals Binary Vs Forex
Comparing two top trading opportunities
BINARY
VS
FOREX
OPTIONS
Profitability rates 60%-85% Uncertain
Risk Controlled Unpredictable
Refunds for losses >15% refund None
Risk/Reward ratio Reward < Risk Reward > Risk
Leverage* Not available Up to X500
For beginners Simple to use Not so much (except social)
Fees No Spread and/or commission
Regulated in the US No Yes
Ownership of asset No Yes
Assets for trading Multiple Limited
A nice little simulator tool for comparing your
possible profits/losses in forex or binary - here.
* Leverage (margin) allows you to increase your investment capital so you can make a larger trade, and potentially a larger profit if your trade is a winning one.
Fundamentals Trade example
How it works
2. Choose expiry time
1. Choose an asset 3. Select investment 4. Decide if the rate
amount will go Up or Down
Gold 18:00 $100
Will Gold go up or down?
Gold 1309.50
CALL
11:00 Payout percentage
1309.650 72%
11:00 PUT Potential payout
$175
11:00 12:00 13:00 14:00 15:00 16:00 17:00 18:00 Time left: 00:29
41% UP DOWN 59%
Market sentiment - dynamic fluctuations of buyers and sellers creating trends
Overview Example
Binary options offer a way to trade stocks, For example, a trader forms a view that the price of
commodities, indices and currency pairs where your gold will fall in a given period of time, and so places
rate of return is FIXED. You just need to correctly $100 in a put. If correct, s/he wins a fixed payout -
pick whether the value of the asset is going up (Call) $175. It does not matter if the price of the asset falls
or down (Put). Usually, these options expire in 15-30 $1 or $100 - the payout is the same. If the price of gold
minutes. rises, however, the trader loses the entire amount of
the investment - $100.
Some brokers, however, let you minimize risks by
choosing the payout and loss percentage you want.
For example, you can choose to lose only 75% in the
event that your view is incorrect. With such an
option, you would also have to accept a lower win
percentage.
Fundamentals Bulls & Bears
A visual trick for memorizing what is bull
and what is bear
On Wall Street, the bulls and bears are in a constant struggle. If you haven't heard of these terms already, you
undoubtedly will as you begin to invest. The terms bull market and bear market describe upward and downward
market trends, respectively, and can be used to describe either the market as a whole or specific sectors and securi-
ties. These images will help you memorize which is which.
Bullish action Bearish action
Bearish trend
Bullish candlestick Bearish candlestick
Fundamentals Tools
How to set up your workspace for
successful binary trading
Precise binary trading decisions must include technical analysis. This requires more specific information than that
provided by a line chart, so professional traders use independent candlestick charts that offer more in-depth data.
1. 1. 2.
Simple binary line chart Binary line chart + candlestick chart tool
Recommended free chart tools
• Trading View tm
• Free Stock Charts tm
• Multicharts
Fundamentals Charts
Unlock the potential of charts!
How to read candlestick charts
The line is called
“shadow”
Highest price Highest price
of the day of the day
Close price Open price
The color bar is called
“body”
Open price Close price
Lowest price Lowest price
of the day of the day
Color variation 1 Color variation 2
Close Open Close Open
Open Close Open Close
A. Doji - when the opening and closing price are equal.
B. Long-Legged Doji - after small candlesticks, they
indicate a potential trend change.
C. 4 Price Doji - where the high and low are equal.
Normally only seen on thinly traded pairs.
A. B. C.
Fundamentals Timing
Best time for trading
One of the most important aspects when trading binary options is to know when to trade the market. Even though
trading on foreign exchange options, stock options, commodity options and index options is available 24 -hours a
day, five days a week, not every hour or minute is worth trading. There are different hours during the day and differ-
ent days of the week which see more volume and liquidity than others, resulting in high volatility and oppor-
tunities to maximize trading.
Overlaps - the peak time
The binary options market is most active when there When more than one market is active, you can expect
is an overlap of the London/New York and to see increased volatility, meaning that prices move
Asia/London sessions. The market experiences a high around more and in a clearer direction. During
volume of trades at these times. off-peak hours, there is little volume and less price
movement, resulting in flat and directionless markets.
Tokyo/London overlap
London/New York overlap
GMT time
08:00 09:00 10:00 11:00 12:00 13:00 14:00 15:00 16:00 17:00 18:00 19:00 20:00 21:00 22:00 23:00 24:00 01:00 02:00 03:00 04:00 05:00 06:00 07:00
London
New York
Sidney
Tokio
Effects of timing Best days of the week
As a binary options trader, you profit when you There are days that see more volatility and price action
correctly predict the direction of an asset price. than others. According to our research, Tuesday and
Volatility is therefore essential to maximize the Wednesday are considered to be the most active
chances of you increasing your return on investment. trading days of the week. Friday is also recognized as
Studies have shown that the most active trading hours a high-volatility trading day, especially during the
occur during the European session. In the US, trading hours when European and US trading sessions
activity picks up sharply around 8:30 am EST. this is overlap. During the second half of the day, price
due to the release of closely watched US economic movements can be very unpredictable.
data, which generates the liquidity and volatility
needed for the underlying asset to reach its target Best time
price before the option expires. Prices become most
volatile when the US releases its monthly non-farm MON TUE WED THU FRI SAT SUN
payrolls report on the first Friday of every month. In
contrast, markets will be less active and liquid during
major holidays in the US and Europe, resulting in
subdued trade.
Fundamentals Expiry time
What time frame to choose for trading
binary options
When it comes to trading binary options, you have a variety of choices for what kind of time frame (time until
expiry) to trade in. the majority of binary options, however, have expiry times ranging from 60 seconds to 30
minutes.
Description Return rate Type of analysis
60 sec
Very unpredictable time frame. Quick results, but hard 65% - 70% More like gambling
NEW!
to make a sound prediction.
10 & 15 min
Random reversals are less likely to occur here. Use Up to 80% Technical
hourly chart to understand the underlying trend.
Most popular
30 minutes binary options should incorporate some 80% and up Technical +
fundamental analysis techniques during your re- F u n d a mental
30 min for an asset to perform more closely to what its long
term forecast is. Long term investors rely very heavily
on fundamentals. You will also want to look at 15
minute charts and hourly charts to give you a broad
view of the technical factors surrounding the asset.
Fundamental analysis will help you here, but 30
minutes is still short enough that you can’t neglect
the technical side of things. Looking at both of these
things will give you a much more complete picture
of how an asset will perform over this longer time
period.
What time-frame to use for the pattern recognition
In order to confirm a trend, use a candlestick chart with a bigger time frame than the one you use to decide your
expiry time. it is usually recommended to use a time frame of at least 1 hour for chart pattern recognition. short-
term traders, however, may choose to use 1-minute and 15-minute candlestick charts. The 1-minute chart provides
entry and exit signals while the 15-minute and hourly charts are used to confirm the trend and support and resist-
ance levels. If you trade binary options with 15-minute or 30-minute expiry times, 1-hour and 4-hour candlestick
charts can be used to determine/confirm your view.
Strategies #1
The Double Red Strategy
1.
PUT
2.
Description Key elements
The double red strategy is a short-term reversal system • Chart for analysis: 5 min
based on price action and resistance. The trade is • Expiry time to use: 5 -15 min
planned on a 5-minute chart and is signaled when
two bearish candles form following a test of resist-
ance. Watch out
1. Choose an asset and watch the market until you see • Not suited for volatile markets.
the first red bar. then wait for a second red bar. • Do not use it when big news events are taking
2. If the second red bar closes lower than the first red place.
bar, then that’s it – Jackpot.
3. Usually, what happens is that the third bar will go
even lower than the second bar. This is the point
where you should immediately place a Put option on
the asset, with an expiry time not longer than 15
minutes.
Strategies #2
The Pinocchio Strategy
Bearish Pinnochio
2. Upper shadow
at least 2x the size
of the real body
4. Potential profit
3. Confirmation
of a downtrend.
PUT
1. Uptrend
Description Key elements
A Pinocchio bar is a candlestick bar that has a very • Time-frame for analysis: 1h, 4h win
68%
small body and a very long wick (nose). It is also • Expiry time to use: 5-15 min
rate
called Shooting star, Hanging man, Hammer and
Inverted Hammer. As you remember, Pinnochio’s
nose grew long when he was lying