Dear Trader -
Welcome to Daytrading University’s Live Seminar Video
Proprietary Techniques Manual. We hope you enjoy the
worksheets and activities contained here for you to use
while viewing the 9 hours of footage in the Live Seminar
Videotapes.
These materials took weeks to design and should be used
carefully, as you learn how to apply the techniques contained
in the videotapes. Please carefully review all terms at
http://www.DaytradingUniversity.com/disclaim.htm prior to
viewing these materials.
Contact us with any questions you may have:
Ken@DaytradingUniversity.com and we will answer you promptly.
Best wishes,
Ken Calhoun, Founder
Daytrading University.com
All materials © Copyright 2001-2002 Daytrading University. If you see these
(or derivative/similar materials) at any other trading seminar, please contact
us: legal@daytradinguniversity.com for a reward. We work to protect our materials.
Presented by Ken Calhoun, President
DAYTRADING UNIVERSITY
www.DaytradingUniversity.com
Enjoy the workshop!
August 20-21, 2001
Sheraton Hotel - Anaheim
Proprietary Nasdaq Day Trading
Techniques for Active Traders
Presented by Ken Calhoun, President
DAYTRADING UNIVERSITY
www.DaytradingUniversity.com
Enjoy the workshop!
Advanced
Day Trading:
Pro Nasdaq
Day Trading Techniques
Participant Workbook
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK - ADVANCED DAY TRADING SEMINAR © 2001 HBTG/DaytradingUniversity.com
DTU’s Advanced Day Trading Seminar “Success Guidelines”
To make this a fast-paced, comprehensive and successful seminars,
I ask for your help in following these guidelines during the session:
- Come prepared to learn with an open and active traders' mind.
- A valid photo ID is required for admittance. You will be required to sign a
disclaimer and waiver/legal agreement prior to attending the seminar. No ID, no
admittance. No exceptions.
- Because of the huge volume of tips and trading content we will be covering (think
"3+ days worth of seminar in 2 days"), we will need to limit questions to times during
our interactive Table Activity sessions, which will be fairly frequent during the
seminar, as well as during lunch and after the sessions each day.
- We will stay as late as you need following each seminar day to answer all of
your trading questions that you may have. We are there for you, I just need to
ask you to not interrupt each session's topic with a lot of questions, or we won't
have time to cover everything. I am an expert facilitator, having trained 28,000
people in my career, and will facilitate everthing successfully to keep us on schedule.
- Absolutely no personal recording devices allowed.
- Absolutely no cell phones, laptops, pagers or other annoying electronic devices
allowed. These will be taken from you at the door if you bring them, kept at the
front office of the Sheraton, and returned at the end of the session.
- Absolutely no 'heckling' or negative comments allowed.
- No competitors or affiliates/agents/partners allowed: absolutely nobody who is
affiliated with, owns, works for or is compensated in any way by any person or
company that delivers stock trading related seminars, online chat services or stock
educational services is allowed to attend.
- Absolutely no food, soft drinks, bags of chips, candy will be allowed in the main
seminar room. This is annoying and distracting. We will provide coffee, lunch and
other food to you during the seminar.
- No exceptions to any of these guidelines will be permitted. They are for the
success of the seminar, and I'm sure you will understand (especially if you've been
in a seminar where one or more of these things has occurred).
Please do bring lots of questions - I will answer all of your questions, usually during activities, breaks,
lunch, and at the end of each day. These guidelines will help ensure the success of the seminar.
We're looking forward to seeing you in this positive, practical and focused session that is geared for
intense learning and discussion of professional trading strategies. Thanks.
NOTE: Daytrading is a speculative and risky activity, and you are encouraged to seek the guidance of
a qualified financial advisor prior to trading and security. We are not a registered financial advisor nor
investment advisor and make no warranties as to the suitability of the techniques contained herein.
You assume full liability and responsibility for the outcomes of all of your trading activities, including
but not limited to loss of capital. Charts found herein are © 2001 Data Broadcasting Corp.
http://www.esignal.com Used with permission. All other materials are © 2001 Ken Calhoun/HBTG. All
rights reserved. You hereby agree to be bound by all terms of our disclaimer, located on our
website, at http://www.daytradinguniversity.com/disclaim.htm We wish you success!
Day
One
Day
Bonus Live Daytrading Premarket Session: 90 minutes
Two
Morning Table Activity #1:
“Crouching Trader, Hidden Market”
Instructions:
Take a look at the charts below. With the help of others at your table,
LABEL each Chart “TIGER” (Good for trading) or “DRAGON” (you’re likely to get burned)
for a LONG trade based on what you see.
Tiger or
Dragon?
Why?
Tiger or
Dragon?
Why?
Tiger or
Dragon?
Why?
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK - ADVANCED DAY TRADING SEMINAR © 2001 HBTG/DaytradingUniversity.com Page 1
Warmup Topic:
Preparing to Make Winning Trades
SETTING UP YOUR CHARTS: Professional Nasdaq Daytraders ’ Rig
1/2 Day 1-min Candle w/Stochs/Volume - Use w/large time & sales box
Use this to help you follow the
micro buy/sell trend and to time
your specific entries.
2 Day 2-min Candle w/Volume
Use this to help you identify:
a) 2-day high/low support and
resistance areas
b) the volatility and “trade potential”
c) the volume pattern
d) the average intraday trading
range.
Thumbnail 1/2-day 1-min Line Grouped by Sector
Use these to help you scan for breakouts.
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK - ADVANCED DAY TRADING SEMINAR © 2001 HBTG/DaytradingUniversity.com Page 2
Warmup Topic:
Preparing to Make Winning Trades
(continued)
MULTIMONITOR
DAYTRADING TIPS
- Clearly identify the role of each monitor: eg order execution, SOX sector and
thumbnails, Market charts, 1/2 day chart, etc. Make it a system that you understand.
- Have 3-4 monitors, 17-21” (Sony/Viewsonic), use Windows 2000 Pro, Matrox G400 and
other PCI video cards and a fast ISP (128K+, cablemodem/T1 best)
- Use this system to help you make trading decisions, it’s a live scanning tool.
- Experiment heavily with various setups til you find one that works for you.
- Develop a decision path, a process for what you will do when signals present
themselves.
- This multimonitor setup is your lifeline to the market. Make it work for you.
Using MARKET INDICATORS
MAJOR TREND (OPPORTUNITY 1) &
DIVERGENCE FROM THE MAJOR TREND (OPPORTUNITY 2)
Nasdaq Composite: Nasdaq Traders ’ Index
Green or Red Today? TRINQ:
Pattern on 2Day Chart? Under 1? Chop? Over 1?
Any Large Open Gap Stocks that
are Worthwhile to Trade?
(eg multipoint gaps) What Type of Day is It?
Strong Trend or Chop?
Wide Range or Narrow Range Day?
Which sector(s) are getting
stronger money flow than others
during each wave on the open?
What specific stock charts
are producing potential trading
signals? (vs chop/no trade)
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK - ADVANCED DAY TRADING SEMINAR © 2001 HBTG/DaytradingUniversity.com Page 3
Daytrading Scanning Strategies That Work
PREMARKET GAPS & NASDAQ FUTURES
As a Trader, your Goal is To Determine whether it’s a
• Premarket Gap Patterns:
CONTINUATION or REVERSAL PLAY
• Nas Futures:
- Watch this premarket on CNBC or use NQ U1 /ND0 etc
- Follow trend, eg is it +32 at 8:40 am and trends down to +11 by 9:28 am?
- Less than 10 or so either direction right before the open is no signal
- Large premarket values give you a “suspect” open gap n trap, eg >25
FOLLOWING THE SECTORS ON THE OPEN
- They will gap on the open, the question is by how much, direction, and trend?
- The trading question is, which are the highest potential sectors to trade within?
Time of Day Sector Value Action
9:30-9:40 < 0.5% --None--
9:30-10am 0.5% to 1.0% Look for trend
continuation
9:30-10am >1.0% Look for gap
reversal
10am-10:30am <1% --None--
10am-10:30am 1%-2% Check for
divergence, eg
1-2 lead sectors
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK - ADVANCED DAY TRADING SEMINAR © 2001 HBTG/DaytradingUniversity.com Page 4
Daytrading Scanning Strategies That Work
(continued)
RECOGNIZING EARLY BREAKOUTS & CUPS, T&S STRATEGIES
• Cup Patterns
Advantages: Easy to Spot, Best Trades,
Highest Probability of Followthrough
Disadvantages: Need to route order quickly
for a fill, competitive trading
What to look for: Scanning for cups
that take the stock over previous
days ’ high.
Enter .3 to .5 over whole number
above previous days ’ high.
How to Use Time & Sales: Ratio of
buyers/sellers and tape speed
• Consolidation Breakouts
Advantages: Clearly defined entry & stop
loss
Disadvantages: Can have false breakouts
to new highs, bad for choppy markets
What to look for: Volume on the
breakout, ascending/descending
triangles. These can occur on
bounce trades as well, eg ascending
triangle after a sharp drop, buy into
fibo bounce range.
How to Use Time & Sales: Look for
‘piggyback trades’, eg the crowd
piles into it once the ‘dam has burst’
to the breakout level.
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK - ADVANCED DAY TRADING SEMINAR © 2001 HBTG/DaytradingUniversity.com Page 5
Morning Table Activity #2:
“Planning for Careful Trades: What to Do”
Instructions:
Discuss the following trading scenario with others at your table. Develop a
specific trading strategy, including:
1) Scanning for Opportunities: What will you check, to identify potentially profitable trades?
2) Risk Management: What factors will keep you out of a trade? How to manage your trades?
3) Technical Analysis & Trade Decision Making: What will get you into a trade? What do you
need to see?
4) Profit Taking: Once you’re in the trade, how will you protect open profits? How long do you
expect to be in each trade?
Ding Ding! Market Opens,
DAY TRADERS ’ MORNING CHECKLIST
Here’s what happens next:
Day of Week: Wednesday
- 9:40 am: Software sector
seems to be leading the pack.
Premarket Futures:
$GSO is strongest at +0.71,
8:45am : +8.47
$NBI following at +0.64,
9:25am +13.22
all others +.14 to +.37
What did the Market do Yesterday?
- $COMPQ opened at 2027,
Range: 1988-2024, closed at 2015
has climbed to 2031 by 9:40
Trend: Flat/slightly up
- We got a pullback at 9:42 in the
Open Gap Direction:
sectors, at 9:48 buyers resume
many stocks opening up +.25-.5 or so from
and the market continues up.
previous days ’ close, no large-gap stocks
COMPQ at 2038 and rising.
TRINQ at .62 and falling.
BONUS - YOU MAKE THE CALL:
Choose (a) or (b) for each pair below. Discuss with other traders.
1) Do you (a) Buy ADBE since it’s making a 2day high or (b) Short CHKP because it looks toppy?
2) Given the same charts, do you (a) Buy PSFT or (b) Buy EBAY?
3) Do you (a) buy at 9:50 and look to sell by 9:58 or (b) wait til 10am to look for new trades?
4) The COMPQ is at a 2day high. Do you (a) short a stock that’s headed up or (b) buy a stock
that’s headed down?
5) You see BEAS getting new buyers, it’s gone up .77 points already today, but you don’t know
whether you’re “too late” at 9:50am. What do you do? (a) Go ahead and buy since the market
looks bullish right now or (b) Buy something that hasn’t already run up quite so much and has
a flatter chart pattern?
PARTICIPANT WORKBOOK - ADVANCED DAY TRADING SEMINAR © 2001 HBTG/DaytradingUniversity.com Page 6
Mastering TIMING:
How to Reading Timing Signals for Pro Daytrading
Trading the First Half Hour: Trading the off the 10am Reversal:
the 10-minute Reversals Patterns to Watch For, T&S Pivots
What You Look for: What You Look for:
• First “fill open orders” 9:30-9:38 • Has a run around 9:50 been established
• Retracement/FIRST REVERSAL 9:40 that continues on past 10am hesitation?
• Does it a) go strong after 9:40? or b) • Follow the tape closely, ratio of buy:sell
chop and have a tentative co