A Marketplace Book
DYNAMIC TRADING INDICATORS
Winning with Value Charts
and Price Action Profile
MARK W. HELWEG
DAVID C. STENDAHL
JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC.
DYNAMIC TRADING INDICATORS
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent
publishing company in the United States. With offices in North
America, Europe, Australia, and Asia, Wiley is globally committed
to developing and marketing print and electronic products and
services for our customers’professional and personal knowledge
and understanding.
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have
survived the market’s ever-changing temperament and have
prospered—some by reinventing systems, others by getting back to
basics. Whether for a novice trader, professional, or someone in-
between, these books provide the advice and strategies needed to
prosper today and well into the future.
For a list of available titles, please visit our web site at
www.WileyFinance.com.
Copyright ©2002 by Mark W. Helweg and David C. Stendahl. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted
in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning,
or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States
Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or
authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance
Center, 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA01923, (978) 750-8400,
fax (978) 750-4744. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to
the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 605 Third Avenue, New York,
NY10158-0012, (212) 850-6011, fax (212) 850-6008, E-Mail: PERMREQ@WILEY.COM.
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard
to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not
engaged in rendering legal, accounting, or other professional services. If legal advice or
other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional person
should be sought.
Designations used by companies to distinguish their products are often claimed as
trademarks. In all instances where the author or publisher is aware of a claim, the
product names appear in Initial Capital letters. Readers, however, should contact the
appropriate companies for more complete information regarding trademarks and
registration.
Value Charts and Price Action Profile are trademarks of Mark W. Helweg.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that
appears in print may not be available in electronic books. For more information about
Wiley products visit our Web site at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Helweg, Mark.
Dynamic trading indicators : winning with value charts and price
action profile / Mark Helweg, David Stendahl.
p. cm. — (Amarketplace book)
“Published simultaneously in Canada.”
ISBN 0-471-21557-0 (cloth : alk. paper)
1. Stocks—Charts, diagrams, etc. 2. Investment analysis.
I. Stendahl, David. II. Title. III. Series.
HG4638 .H45 2002
332.63'2042—dc21 2002002970
Printed in the United States of America.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
To Michelle, the most supportive and loving wife in the world.
Also to my parents, who have always modeled excellence
and who have always been an encouragement.
Most importantly, I am forever grateful for John 3:16.
—M.W.H.
To the woman who has been there through it all and continues
to be my support and the love of my life, my wife Carolyn.
And to my beautiful daughter Ava, who brings me tremendous
joy and happiness. Also to my parents and sister
for their love and support. Thank you all.
—D.C.S.
Contents
Introduction 1
Chapter 1 Understanding Price and Value 7
Chapter 2 Value Charts 25
Chapter 3 Price Action Profile 47
Chapter 4 Lowering Risk Exposure 83
Chapter 5 Enhancing Value Charts with Short-Term Trading Systems 107
Chapter 6 Designing Trading Systems with Value Charts 127
Chapter 7 Value Charts and Pattern Recognition 147
Chapter 8 Value Scan 155
Chapter 9 Using Dynamic Valuation for Changing Markets 169
Chapter 10 Dollar Cost Averaging with Value Charts 183
Appendix Price Action Profiles of Dow 30 Stocks 191
Index 223
vii
A Marketplace Book
DYNAMIC TRADING INDICATORS
Winning with Value Charts
and Price Action Profile
MARK W. HELWEG
DAVID C. STENDAHL
JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC.
INTRODUCTION
F
or all of those people who love
trading or investing or simply want to gain more insight into market
behavior, this book promises to offer two very powerful and exciting
new tools that can be used to analyze and predict market behavior. To
me, trading in the markets is like rafting through the gauntlet. The ex-
perience promises to offer a growing experience unmatched by just
about anything else we encounter in daily living. To win as a trader,
one has to control and even master different areas of his or her life.
For example, you might be the greatest technical analyst in the world,
but if you don’t have discipline then you will probably never win over
a long time period. You can’t have intelligence and succeed without
courage. You can’t have discipline and succeed without a valid strat-
egy. If becoming a great trader or investor didn’t offer the challenge
and growing experience that it does, then we most likely wouldn’t be
drawn to it.
Value Charts™ and Price Action Profile™ represent the most
exciting breakthrough of my trading career. Consider the following
definitions:
Price: The sum of money given for the sale of something
Value: An amount regarded as a fair equivalent for something
Price and value are two very different terms, yet we continue to
look only at price charts. What we should be more concerned with is
1
2 INTRODUCTION
the valuation of the market that we are studying instead of the price
of the market. Price, as just stated, is the sum of money given for
something. Value, on the other hand, deals with the issue of what
price is considered fair. The meaning of the word fair, when it comes
to the pricing of an object, might be defined as “a price level that the
majority of both buyers and sellers deem as reasonable.” After con-
templating these definitions, it is logical to ask the following ques-
tion: Are traditional price charts effective in identifying the valuation
of a market? The answer to this question is no; traditional price charts
are not effective in identifying the valuation of a market. This is logi-
cal because price charts accomplish just as their title implies; they
display price. They were not designed to identify or define the valua-
tion of a market.
Value Charts were developed to display the valuation of a market.
When a market participant seeks to enter or exit a market, is he con-
cerned with the price at which the market is trading or the valuation of
the market? As we progress through this book, we discover that every
market participant who enters or exits a market is really interested in
the valuation of a market. The valuation of a market has to do with
whether the current price level is trading at fair value, is trading above
fair value (overvalued), or is trading below fair value (undervalued).
The valuation of a market is determined by analyzing the percentage
of buyers and sellers who consider current price levels acceptable, or
fair. Value Charts were developed to define the valuation for any free
market. Similar to normal price charts, Value Charts are most effective
when applied to markets that are both standardized and liquid.
Value Charts were developed to pick up where traditional price
charts leave off. Bar charts, as we know them, reveal only one aspect
of price activity. More specifically, bar charts display the absolute
current and historical price activity for a market. This information is
beneficial if we are interested in learning about the magnitude of his-
torical price moves. By reviewing this information, we can deter-
mine if a market is capable of experiencing explosive bull markets,
able to sustain long trends, or simply prone to stagnant, choppy price
activity. Traditional price charts remind us that big price moves can
happen in certain markets over time. They remind market partici-
Introduction 3
pants that significant profits can be generated by trading in these big
price moves.
While traditional price charts express price in absolute terms,
Value Charts display price activity in relative terms. Value Charts re-
veal the valuation of a market and define price levels in terms of be-
ing fair valued, overvalued, or undervalued price levels. By clearly
defining a market’s valuation, Value Charts allow traders to buy into
markets at undervalued, or oversold, price levels. Also, Value Charts
enable traders to avoid buying into markets at overvalued, or over-
bought, price levels. In addition, Value Charts allow traders to iden-
tify fair value price levels and confidently transact business at these
price levels. Upon completing this book, traders will know how to
read Value Charts and benefit from their ability to define the valua-
tion of a market.
When you are contrasting Value Charts with traditional bar
charts, it will become evident that each type of charting technique an-
swers a different set of questions about the market under considera-
tion. Many market participants have most likely never thought about
the fact that traditional price charts alone may not be able to provide
the necessary information to generate an optimal trading decision.
Most investors have not asked themselves if traditional bar charts are
an acceptable standalone primary source of market information for
generating trading decisions. Whatever the case may be, it is impor-
tant to understand that traditional price charts reveal only absolute
market price behavior. Prudence demands that we take time to under-
stand the effectiveness and limitations of the information provided by
each market analysis tool that we are planning on using when making
trading decisions.
When reading this book, you will learn that Value Charts work in
tandem with another new and powerful market analysis tool, Price Ac-
tion Profile. In order to determine the frequency that a market trades
within each Value Chart price interval, it is necessary to study the cor-
responding Price Action Profile for the market under consideration.
Just as the name indicates, a Price Action Profile plots the distribution
of Value Chart price activity. As we will soon learn, Price Action Pro-
files allow investors to determine the degree in which a market is
4 INTRODUCTION
overvalued (overbought) or undervalued (oversold). By using conven-
tions from modern statistics, this powerful complement to Value
Charts enables investors to define Value Chart price ranges associated
with fair value, overbought, and oversold price levels.
Value Charts and Price Action Profile were developed with both
the novice and seasoned investor in mind. By simply viewing price in
this new format, investors are able to gain valuable insight into the
valuation of any market. These innovative new market analysis tools
do not represent the black box. Rather, they represent a valuable and
necessary market analysis tool that should be a part of every serious
trader’s arsenal of technical charting and market analysis tools. Value
Charts and Price Action Profile meet the most important requirements
of an effective market analysis tool; they are easy to learn, they can be
deciphered quickly, and they can be interpreted only one way.
For trading system developers, Value Charts open up a whole
new universe of relative price levels that can be utilized to drive trad-
ing systems and market indicators. Until now, most traders have had
access to only a limited number of reference price levels. These price
levels are used to inst