How to Swing Trade
A Beginner’s Guide to Trading Tools, Money
Management, Rules, Strategies and Routines of a Swing
Trader
© Brian Pezim, BSc, MBA
Preface by Andrew Aziz, Ph.D.
Traders at Bear Bull Traders
www.bearbulltraders.com
DISCLAIMER:
The author and www.BearBullTraders.com (“the Company”), including its employees, contractors,
shareholders and affiliates, are NOT an investment advisory service, registered investment advisors
or broker-dealers and does not undertake to advise clients on which securities they should buy or sell
for themselves. It must be understood that a very high degree of risk is involved in trading securities.
The Company, the author, the publisher and the affiliates of the Company assume no responsibility or
liability for trading and investment results. Statements on the Company's website and in its
publications are made as of the date stated and are subject to change without notice. It should not be
assumed that the methods, techniques or indicators presented in these products will be profitable nor
that they will not result in losses. In addition, the indicators, strategies, rules and all other features of
the Company's products (collectively, “the Information”) are provided for informational and
educational purposes only and should not be construed as investment advice. Examples presented are
for educational purposes only. Accordingly, readers should not rely solely on the Information in
making any trades or investments. Rather, they should use the Information only as a starting point for
doing additional independent research in order to allow them to form their own opinions regarding
trading and investments. Investors and traders must always consult with their licensed financial
advisors and tax advisors to determine the suitability of any investment.
Preface
The current bull market rally, which started March 9, 2009, is known
to be the longest one on record since World War II. By 2018, the market has
risen more than 300 percent since its low just 9 years ago. Everyone is
talking about the markets these days, from coffee shop customers and
baristas to nurses and grandmothers.
The technology boom, along with widespread high speed Internet use,
social media and new gadgets and apps has made everyone with even just a
passing interest an armchair expert in the world of investing and trading.
While the financial markets once only belonged to the elites of Wall Street,
today teenagers are now doubling their parents’ accounts by trading
complex financial instruments like options or futures.
Millennials are connected 24/7 to the well of knowledge, the Internet,
searching for every answer and not accepting unknowns. They do not want
to leave their money in the hands of advisors, bankers and mutual fund
managers who charge extremely high fees and offer very low returns. They
are in control of their lives, and as a result, more savvy toward their
investments and assets. Because of these new changes, we now have
entered an interesting period for trading.
Hot sector mania is not a new thing, but we see them much more often
these days. In the past, hot sector mania used to be rare and happen only
once every decade or so. They corresponded to technological revolutions
such as the birth of the Internet or advancements in IT such as the dot.com
bubble of the late 1990s. But today, trading has changed. We see a mania
almost every few months. People rush to buy into a sector: the bitcoin and
cryptocurrency mania of 2017, the FAANG mania of early 2018 (Facebook,
Apple, Amazon, Netflix and Alphabet’s Google), and the marijuana and pot
mania of the summer of 2018. For traders, everything is different.
Who would have thought that a photo-sharing app like Snapchat with a
27-year-old CEO would be worth more on its IPO than American Airlines,
Hilton, Best Buy or Ferrari. The stock opened at $17 per share and closed
the day at $24.51, with the market cap as high as $34 billion. Or who would
have imagined ordinary people rushing to buy bitcoin and cryptocurrencies
in 2017. The blockchain stocks were the hot new thing that year.
As Brian Pezim details in his book, the value of companies who
simply mentioned the word “blockchain” in a press release would
skyrocket. For example, a company called “Long Island Iced Tea Corp.”
(ticker: LTEA) changed their name to “Long Blockchain Corp.” (ticker:
LBCC) and decided to shift their focus from beverages to blockchain
technology. The stock ran over 200% in a single day. Or who would have
thought a company like New Age Beverages Corporation (ticker: NBEV),
which sells beverages like tea, coffee and kombucha, would see its stock
skyrocket 62.5% following an announcement that they would launch a
beverage infused with cannabidiol.
As I sit at my desk writing this preface in September of 2018, the
markets are incredible. Successful trading in these markets requires a new
perspective and new strategies that complement this new era of trading. It’s
a whole new world out there! Old school trading textbooks and strategies
developed by analysts decades ago need updating. Although those systems
have their place, a considerable fortune can be made by adapting to the new
market conditions. That is why I think this book is important and different.
I used to work with Brian at a company while I was doing research in
clean tech. I traveled with him for work a few times and we became friends.
He is older than me, he was semi-retired, and had literally tons of
knowledge and experience to transfer to me. I soon learned about trading
from him, and he in fact was the person who first introduced me to the
world of trading.
Although Brian is an engineer by training, he has developed
exceptional skills when it comes to trading in the financial markets. He is
now a friend as well as a colleague in our community of traders, Bear Bull
Traders (www.BearBullTraders.com). We focus mostly on day trading in
the stock market, but from time to time Brian will share his swing trades
with us. Everyone in the community has been wanting to know how he
swing trades. We encouraged him to write a book about his strategies, and
he did.
As a person who has known Brian for a long time, I was excited to
read his book, How to Swing Trade. In his book, Brian explains 3 strategies
for swing trading: the conventional method of scanning stocks based on
technical analysis, overnight gaps, and hot sector manias. I found these 3
strategies to be effective and easy to understand and execute. In his book, in
addition to his swing trading strategies, he also writes about other aspects of
swing trading that are just as important, such as proper tools, a sound
psychology and effective risk and trade management.
Brian’s book, in my opinion, is the quickest way for new traders to get
up to speed with how to swing trade in the markets. I hope you enjoy
reading this book as much as I did.
Andrew Aziz
Author,
1. How to Day Trade for a Living: A Beginner’s Guide to Trading Tools
and Tactics, Money Management, Discipline and Trading Psychology
2. Advanced Techniques in Day Trading: A Practical Guide to High
Probability Strategies and Methods
www.BearBullTraders.com
How to Profitably Swing Trade
Chapter 1: Introduction
Chapter 2: How Swing Trading Works
Swing Trading vs. Day Trading
Swing Trading vs. Position Trading
Market Participants: Retail vs. Institutional Traders
High-Frequency Trades
How to Start Trading
Buying Long or Selling Short
How to Enter a Trade
Investment and Margin Accounts
Chapter Summary
Chapter 3: Tools and Platforms for Swing Trading
Type of Account
Commissions and Fees
Platforms and Tools
Tools Available Online
Chapter Summary
Chapter 4: Financial Instruments for Swing Trading
Exchange-Traded Funds
Individual Stocks
Currencies
Cryptocurrencies
Options
Chapter Summary
Chapter 5: Risk and Account Management
Assessing the Risk and the Reward
Setting Stops and Targets
Managing the Trade Size
Maintaining a Trading Journal
Chapter Summary
Chapter 6: Fundamental Analysis
Total Revenue
Earnings per Share
Price to Earnings Ratio
Debt to Equity
Return on Equity
Short Interest
Hot Sector Manias
Chapter Summary
Chapter 7: Technical Analysis – Charting Basics
Candlesticks
Bar Charts
Price Action and Psychology
Candlestick Patterns
Basic Bullish and Bearish Candlesticks
Reversal Candles
Gaps
Chapter Summary
Chapter 8: Technical Analysis – Indicator Tools
Support and Resistance Levels
Moving Averages
Relative Strength Index
MACD: Convergence and Divergence
Average True Range
Chapter Summary
Chapter 9: Technical Analysis – Patterns
Double Bottoms and Double Tops
Bear and Bull Flags
How to Trade Flag Patterns
Bear and Bull Pendants
ABCD Patterns
Head and Shoulders Patterns
Chapter Summary
Chapter 10: Swing Trading Guiding Principles
Keep it Simple
Treat your Swing Trading Activity Like a Serious Business
Develop a Work Plan
Actively Manage your Risk to Reward Ratio; Focus on the Entry
Measure your Results and Adjust Accordingly
Chapter Summary
Chapter 11: Swing Trading Rules
Risks of Holding a Security
Over-the-Counter or Penny Stocks
Chapter Summary
Chapter 12: Swing Trading Strategies
Regularly Scanning for Trades
Short-term Gap Trades
Hot Sector Manias
Chapter Summary
Chapter 13: The Entry and the Exit
The Entry
The Exit
Chapter Summary
Chapter 14: The Routine of a Swing Trader
Setting Goals, Objectives and Strategies
Defining and Building a Routine
Chapter Summary
Chapter 15: Final Thoughts
Glossary
Chapter 1:
Introduction
Swing trading is a type of trading in which you hold positions in stocks
or other investments over a period of time that can range from 1 day to a
few weeks or more. In this book, I will explain the fundamentals of swing
trading and how it is different from other styles of trading and investing
such as day trading or position trading. I will also describe some swing
trading strategies that many traders use each day. These strategies, and
others that you may decide to develop on your own, could provide you with
an opportunity to over time make a good return on your capital.
If you are a beginner trader, this book will equip you with an
understanding of where to start, how to start, what to expect from swing
trading, and how you can develop your own strategy based on your personal
goals. Simply reading this book will not necessarily make you a profitable
swing trader though. Profits in trading do not come from reading 1 or 2
books. They will come with education, the right tools, practice and ongoing
market research.
If you are a trader with some existing experience, this book will give
you some insights on the author’s approach to swing trading, rules that I
follow and some strategies that I have used over the years to make
profitable trades.
When I was a preteen, I would watch my father pour over the stocks in
the newspaper and occasionally hear him on the phone with his broker,
placing orders to buy and sell shares. One day I asked my father if he could
buy some stock and he said sure. He opened an account and bought 1 (one),
yes, 1 share of “The Bell Telephone Company of Canada”. I still have that 1
share today and it has multiplied into a couple of dozen shares through
splits and a dividend reinvestment program.
That was the starting point for my stock ownership/trading career. Ever
since, I have been interested in stocks and the stock market and I have
subsequently traded throughout most of my adult life.
The one thing we can all count on is change and this holds true for
trading the stock market. When I started actively purchasing stocks, the
Internet did not exist. If you wanted to research a particular company, you
went to the library and asked for a file that would consist of newspaper
clippings and maybe annual reports. Charts. What charts?
The advent of the Internet and online trading changed the financial
industry dramatically. I tried my hand at day trading during the dot-com era.
I made a lot of money and then lost a lot of money. It was a humbling
less