Learn to day-trade the E-mini S&P 500
Simple-as-123
Marshall J. Jones
1
I’ll Show You How to Day Trade
The E-Mini S&P in 60-90 Days…
Regardless of Market Direction!
Simple-as-123
#1 Knowledge:
You need to know what determines momentum.
#2 Information:
You need timely, crucial information to help you determine when that
momentum is the best time to make the trade, and when to get out in order to minimize your risk
and maximize your profits.
#3 Belief:
You must have a belief in yourself that you can do it. It’s that belief in yourself
that gets you to take action. You have to act on the first two ingredients (knowledge and
information) in order to make this method work for you.
Notes: Don't Ask Questions Now…Wait Till You Read This Manual First --
I’ll explain what it all means as we go along in the manual!
New to the game?
If you are not an experienced day-trader, and don’t know the basics…please go to page 55
Know it all?
You might want to review the basics anyway…you just may learn something new!
Predicting the future is easy. It’s trying to figure out
what’s going on now that’s hard
Fritz R. S. Dressler
President FRS Dressler Associates
2
Table of Contents
Preface 4
Acknowledgements 5
Bio…Thought you’d never ask! 6
Introduction
How does it work 8
Knowledge 9
Information 10
Belief -- Discipline 11
Your Charts 13
Logging on to RealTime Charts 14
Loosen Up – US Stock Market Window 15
Keep a Diary if You Really Want to Learn 17
Short Hand 17
The Concept 19
Momentum 21
This is How I Do It 22
Trade Log with Time Zones 23
3
Preface
I had been trading for about five years, and had very little success with short or long term
trading. I became fascinated with the idea of day trading. I was always looking for the Holy Grail
and as we traders know, there is no such thing. We all spend way too much money for the hype
that's out there, and with all the talk on the street about the money being made day-trading I
started to look for a system or method to trade the S&P, but when I looked into the amount of
margin you needed I quickly became disillusioned. I’m not in that league as it takes over
$25,000.00 to trade one contract! I had heard of mini contracts and found you could trade the
Emini S&P; it’s one-fifth the size of the big S&P; and is traded electronically on Globex with no
need to talk over the phone to a broker. Well, it fit right into my style of trading. I guess I like the
action, and I don't like all that research for trading long-term positions.
I started looking at charts and watching the news on CNBC everyday. I read everything on day
trading that I could get my hands on. I think, because of all the stuff I had read about, such as
fundamentals, technical analysis, and all those crazy indicators like RSI, Fibonacci numbers,
Gann lines, Elliot waves, Stochastics, it would be just too difficult. Then I read an article written
by one of my favorite teachers, Larry Williams and a co-author Miles Dunbar, they wrote an
article for Futures Magazine, “Trading Strategies For the Future… The E-Mini Nasdaq 100” and
in the article, he used an indices as an indicator, and in the same magazine article another writer
used a different indices as an indicator. I said to myself…Self, why don’t you use both, as an
indicator … the rest is history.
I did not have a losing trade for over a year when I first started, I was very conservative, and only
went by what I perceived to be the perfect scenario to trade the E-mini. The method worked well
during the big Bull Run in the late 90’s. You could not make a bad trade with this method if you
tried! I kept trying to tweak it and find more days to trade it. I had quite a few friends and fellow
traders wanting to try it so I began to teach the method during the most volatile time of the
market. The method worked, but it took patience and discipline and a bigger drawdown.
I could write a whole chapter about trying all those crazy indicators. Man, all that stuff gave me
brain cloud. I tried to put too much into it. I know now, after teaching students who knew
nothing about trading, that they do much better than the experienced trader who has too much
emotion and indicators to look at. This method is simple, and I will attempt to show you how
simple it is in this manual. I will teach you just what you need to know, no more, and no less.
Jake Bernstein said it takes ten years to develop a system or method ... we will see! As I write
this we are in a bear market and it could be a whole new ballgame.
Remember the acronym "Kiss" ... Keep It Simple Stupid
Happy trading ... Simple-as-123
Marshall J. Jones
Day trader
4
Acknowledgments
To my wife Helen, the computer widow, who brought me my coffee each and every morning,
and made sure I got the latest business news from the newspaper. For her patience, and love, I
owe her a debt of gratitude. We could have been traveling all over the States, having a great
time, but she never complained. Wow! … What a wife!
My daughter Renee, who took the time out of her busy day to help me proofread this manual,
She holds down three jobs and has Ryan, her three-year-old son…who also tries to help me on
the computer. When I’m trading, he likes to cheer me on. (I have to be very careful what I
say…if you know what I mean.)
My soon to be son in law, Frank Giganti, who prods me on with his marketing insights and
Sharon my second daughter, for all of her e-mail letters of encouragement and suggestions. She
makes me laugh, and see the sunny side of life.
And to the rest of my family, Darlene my youngest daughter, her husband Greg and their two
sons Joey, and Frankie, for their words of encouragement. And last but not least, my two sons
Marshall and Michael who asked everyday, “What in the world are you doing up there dad?”
I am so thankful for all of the traders who have touched my life with their opinion, suggestions,
systems, methods, testimonials, and those who took the time to trade with me live, using the live
charts on quote.com, and Yahoo! Messenger. It was a blast, guys! I really learned a lot about this
method and myself with you on line.
A special thanks to Thom Huntington, who helped edit part of this manual.
Let’s not forget Lycos, Quote.com’s Live Charts, Yahoo, and paltalk for their great Messenger,
and chat room software.
It's only when we truly know and understand that we don't know ... and had no way of knowing,
that we know we have to find out what we don't know.
Marshall J. Jones
Day-Trader, writer, poet, teacher, printer, pilot, marketing guru
Father, grandfather, and all around good guy
But only in my own mind!
5
Thought you'd never ask!
Well it's been one hell of a ride! An adventure like a Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn novel,
and it's not over yet.
I was born in El Centro, California, about 100 miles east of San Diego, where my family moved
when I was about seven years old. My dad had bought Acme Printing Co., one of the oldest
printing firms here in San Diego, dating back to around 1905 or earlier.
After graduating from high school and volunteering for the draft, I was offered a chance to take
my choice of any school the Army had to offer, so looking for the big bucks ($55.00 extra per
month), I chose the Army Airborne. By the way, I don't recommend jumping out of a perfectly
good airplane.
I went through jump school at Fort Campbell Kentucky, and was also given a chance to attend
the Ranger School at Fort Benning, Georgia. That's what I get for being gung-ho, and
fortunately for me, an armistice had been declared in the Korean War.
With my Honorable discharge from the Army in 1956, and the offer to pay me to go back to
school, I was able to get my commercial pilot's license, and look for a job with the airlines here
in San Diego. But no luck here; all of the pilots coming home from Korea got the jobs.
Joining my Father, I managed the family printing business. I met my lovely wife, got married,
and had five children. I attended San Diego Junior College, and San Diego State College (it was
not even a University in those days), taking classes in business and marketing. After my father's
death, I owned Acme Printing Co. and other various business enterprises for over twenty years.
I was very active in San Diego, joining various Civic organizations; San Diego Junior Chamber
of Commerce, past chairman of the Aviation Committee, formed the San Diego Jaycee Flying
Club, Past President of Harbor Lions, Flotilla 11, U.S. Coast Guard Power Squadron, Air Search
and Rescue, Antique Air Craft Association, San Diego Aerospace Museum, and was a member
of the San Diego Elks Lodge. Busy, busy, busy!
I started many various companies in the twenty years I was active in the printing business. Some
of these businesses included American Traders Manufactures and Buyers (ATMAB - Anything
To Make A Buck), Presto Prints of California, The Sand Box, Tattoos by Joyce, Joyce
Enterprises Inc., M & J Marketing, Marshall Air, San Diego Sky Hawks Inc., and Typro
Graphics.
I retired from the printing business in 1976, and formed Joyce Enterprises Inc., a corporation
involved in marketing and business consulting. I was a major shareholder and served on the
Board of Directors as Vice President, in charge of marketing, and product development. I also
became a business consultant, specializing in product development for other start up companies.
6
I came out of retirement in 1986 after some bad investment decisions, and went to work as a
manager of Paper Plus, a division of Unisource World Wide. I retired again after fourteen years
in September 2000.
My many hobbies over the years include, backpacking, rebuilding antique aircraft, flying,
boating, fishing, writing poetry, reading and watching Biography and the History channel, and
last but not least, teaching day-trading.
Looking for additional income, I happened to receive a familiar mail order pamphlet in 1994.
You know the one... how to get rich quick in the commodities and futures business.
I jumped right on in. Needless to say, I didn't get it. I kept looking for the Holy Grail! I read
everything I could get my hands on, attending seminars and lectures on how to get rich. I spent a
small fortune on books, systems, and methods by the likes of Ken Roberts, Jake Bernstein, Nick
Van Nice, and our old favorite Larry Williams.
Nothing worked for me, except an education in the commodities and futures business. Still
thinking that this is a possible way to make money at home, I read an article on day trading in
Futures magazine. I tried paper trading some of the ideas presented in the article on the S&P; it
just gave me brain cloud - way too much stuff to think about. In another article in Futures, Larry
Williams and Miles Dunbar wrote about trading the Nasdaq 100 and looking at a divergence in
the Dow. Another article in the same magazine written by Michael A. Mermer talked about
using the Nasdaq 100 as a leading indicator for the S&P 500 futures and said it was a great day-
trading vehicle. At first it did not really sink in until I started watching CNBC on television.
They have those little arrows in a box showing the change in the Dow, Nasdaq, and S&P 500. A
light went on for some reason and I started watching every morning, keeping my eye on the Dow
and the Nasdaq. At first I was looking for the divergence, then I noticed that when both the Dow
and Nasdaq were in sync, the S&P 500 followed.
Hey the rest is history!
Simple but not easy… fear and greed are your enemies; patience and discipline are your tools,
practice is the only way to achieving your potential
Marshall J. Jones
Day trader
7
Introduction
… Simple-as-123
How does it work?
There are three indices that we look at after the market opens…and
through out the day, they tell me which way the E-mini S&P is
going. They are not indicators in the true sense of the word, but
that’s what I call them.
#1 The Dow #2 The Nasdaq #3 The S&P 500
Nuance: We don’t make a trade during the first half hour. (We let the market settle down and
wait f