OPTIONS AND
OPTIONS TRADING
A Simplified Course that
Takes You from Coin Tosses
to Black-Scholes
ROBERT W. WARD
McGraw-Hill
NewYork Chicago SanFrancisco Lisbon London
Madrid MexicoCity Milan NewDelhi
SanJuan Seoul Singapore
Sydney Toronto
Copyright © 2004 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. All rights reserved. Manufactured in the United
States of America. Except as permitted under the United States Copyright Act of 1976, no part of this
publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means, or stored in a database or
retrieval system, without the prior written permission of the publisher.
0-07-144297-9
The material in this eBook also appears in the print version of this title: 0-07-143209-4
All trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than put a trademark symbol after
every occurrence of a trademarked name, we use names in an editorial fashion only, and to the benefit
of the trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark. Where such designations
appear in this book, they have been printed with initial caps.
McGraw-Hill eBooks are available at special quantity discounts to use as premiums and sales
promotions, or for use in corporate training programs. For more information, please contact George
Hoare, Special Sales, at george_hoare@mcgraw-hill.com or (212) 904-4069.
TERMS OF USE
This is a copyrighted work and The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“McGraw-Hill”) and its licensors
reserve all rights in and to the work. Use of this work is subject to these terms. Except as permitted
under the Copyright Act of 1976 and the right to store and retrieve one copy of the work, you may not
decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, reproduce, modify, create derivative works based upon,
transmit, distribute, disseminate, sell, publish or sublicense the work or any part of it without McGraw-
Hill’s prior consent. You may use the work for your own noncommercial and personal use; any other
use of the work is strictly prohibited. Your right to use the work may be terminated if you fail to
comply with these terms.
THE WORK IS PROVIDED “AS IS.” McGRAW-HILL AND ITS LICENSORS MAKE NO
GUARANTEES OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE ACCURACY, ADEQUACY OR
COMPLETENESS OF OR RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED FROM USING THE WORK,
INCLUDING ANY INFORMATION THAT CAN BE ACCESSED THROUGH THE WORK VIA
HYPERLINK OR OTHERWISE, AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. McGraw-Hill and its
licensors do not warrant or guarantee that the functions contained in the work will meet your
requirements or that its operation will be uninterrupted or error free. Neither McGraw-Hill nor its
licensors shall be liable to you or anyone else for any inaccuracy, error or omission, regardless of cause,
in the work or for any damages resulting therefrom. McGraw-Hill has no responsibility for the content
of any information accessed through the work. Under no circumstances shall McGraw-Hill and/or its
licensors be liable for any indirect, incidental, special, punitive, consequential or similar damages that
result from the use of or inability to use the work, even if any of them has been advised of the
possibility of such damages. This limitation of liability shall apply to any claim or cause whatsoever
whether such claim or cause arises in contract, tort or otherwise.
DOI: 10.1036/0071442979
For more information about this title, click here.
C O N T E N T S
Foreword vii
Preface On Taking Risk and Blowing Up xi
PART ONE
THE BASICS
Chapter1
What a Derivative Is and What It Isn’t 3
Chapter2
Binomials and Coin Tosses 31
Chapter3
Pascal’s Triangle and the Binomial Theorem 47
Chapter4
Distributions Are the Key—What Are Distributions? 59
Chapter5
Probabilities, Odds, and Payoffs 73
Chapter6
Writing Our First Option 85
Chapter7
Sectors, Strike Prices, and Summation Signs 97
Chapter8
The Fair Price of an Option 109
iii
iv Contents
Chapter9
Our First Stock Option: IBM 119
Chapter10
Statistics: The 15-Minute Cram Course 135
Chapter11
Dow Jones versus Coin Tosses 145
Chapter12
Turning Spot Prices into Forward Prices: S (cid:1) eRT 159
PART TWO
THE FORMULA
Chapter13
Skeleton for an Option Formula 181
Chapter14
Getting Comfortable with the Black-Scholes Formula 195
Chapter15
Introducing Volatility and SKIT-V 203
Chapter16
Pros and Cons of the Black-Scholes Formula 209
PART THREE
TRADING
Chapter17
A Primer on Risk and Hedging 223
Contents v
Chapter18
Option Risk: Finding It and Hedging It 247
Chapter19
How Traders Make Money (Customers) 273
Chapter20
How to Convert Puts and Calls: CPL.PCS 289
Chapter21
The Best Option Strategies 297
Chapter22
Market Insights and Edges 321
ANSWER KEY 339
INDEX 405
This page intentionally left blank.
F O R E W O R D
Wall Street—oh, the stories I could tell and the tales of intrigue I
could write—and don’t think I haven’t been asked or been
tempted. Maybe it comes back to that old market adage regarding
time and price—I haven’t the time and no one has yet offered my
price! But no matter, my memoirs will have to wait for another
time as this is Bob’s option book. Some day when life slows down
a bit maybe I can make the time to dictate those stories. Bob took
some time off and did just that, but he focused on sharing his
hard-earned knowledge and experience with those who want to
know how it really works.
Wall Street is a world of finance, a world of ever-changing
prices and ideas—heretoday,gonetomorrow.Changeisintheair.
Only on Wall Street could the Nasdaq be priced at more than5000
before crashing to almost 1000 in two years. Meanwhile, Bob and
I have been toiling away in that Rip Van Winkle ofa market,gold,
which after slumbering for 20 years has just begun to awaken,
and in two years has bounced back from $250 to $425. It has been
a long, long wait for those of us not asleep the past 20 years. This
is the market Bob and I have been shackled to, seemingly forever.
It takes real hardscrabble instincts to survivein suchabarren
environment and to help us thrive and prosper at Prudential Se-
curities we fall back on old Ben Franklin’s adage: early to bedand
early to rise. Things start early in our office. At the southernmost
tip of Manhattan our day starts at 6:45 a.m. and we are, para-
phrasing Michael Lewis in his book about Salomon Bros., ‘‘ready
and eager to bite the backside off a bear each morning.’’
But you need more than enthusiasm to prosper on Wall
Street. Our survival over the past 25 years has been based pri-
marily on the philosophy we embrace and to which Bob devotes
a whole chapter: ‘‘The customer is king.’’ We ply our daily efforts
solely in the direction ofhelpingourcustomerssurviveandthrive
in the gold and foreign exchange markets. For the past 20 years
we’ve operated an around-the-clock desk—an increasingly rare
phenomenon these last few years. As Bob likes to remind me, ‘‘in
good times it seems everybody’s a genius, but only the shrewdest
manage to survive in style when a decade of dry years hits.’’ And
gold has been in a coma for at least that long.
vii
Copyright © 2004 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. Click here for terms of use.
viii Foreword
Our business is primarily based on derivatives, theveryones
described in Bob’s book: futures, forwards, and options. They are
our stock in trade, comprisingroughlythree-quartersofourdeals.
To many on the outside of Wall Street they seem to be unfath-
omableand,byimplication,unmanageable.Butthisisnotthecase
at all. Despite the fact that my education prepared me far more
for literature and philosophy, learning the ins and outs of deriv-
atives was more a matter of time and application than of mathe-
matical wizardry. Mathematical theory has its place, but it often
seems wide of the mark and leaves many of us shaking ourheads
with a ‘‘so what’’ attitude. The market is not a respecter of simple
formulas, or things would be more orderly than they are. Most of
usrequireanintuitivefeelforthederivativeswetrade,ratherthan
depend upon mathematical abstractions. Bob shows you how and
whyforwards,futures,andoptionsworkfromtheinsideout.Take
it fromonewhoknows—hisdescriptionsareasrealworldasthey
come and properly describe the way the markets work.
Hischapteronhowtradersmakemoney(andtheimportance
of customers) is clearer and truer than any I’ve ever seen. It not
only has the ring of truth, but the real-time experience to back it
up.Bobwasaheadtraderformanyyearsandlearnedthesethings
first hand. I can verify the realities he lays out—it’s as true a de-
scriptionof the tradingdilemmaasyouwilleversee.Youcanfool
around with taking positions all you want, but the customer is
king and the moment you forget that is the moment your depart-
ment starts downhill. You will never survive the dry years.
Bob has taken his deep understanding of the markets, op-
tions in particular, and turned them into a step-by-step textbook
to help aspiring students. You won’t find complex ideas broken
down more simply, or explanations made as real-life and visual
in any other books. And nobody worries like Bob does about the
reader getting lost. While academic books might show more rigor,
they also miss the point: What matters to a trader on a desk is
the nitty-gritty intuitions of how and why something works and
how to fix it when things go awry. Bob can troubleshootproblems
instantly and figure out simple solutions faster than anybody I
know. I’ve seen him do it. If you pay attention to the details
in this book you will learn the most important lesson in
troubleshooting—good solutions always depend on a clear un-
derstanding of the basics. The more basic a thing is, the easier it
Foreword ix
is to see the problems and find the right answers. In several in-
famous disasters of recent years, such as Enron, derivative posi-
tions were not simplified and clarified but were used as vehicles
of obfuscation. That alone tells you about the intentions of man-
agements who failed.
Bob is able to take esoteric concepts and translate them into
simple, everyday examples. He then helps anchor the ideas in
your mind with memorable visual images—making recall so
much easier than the classically dry textbook formulas. I know
thisforsure—Ihaveneverrunintoabetterblendofriskmanager-
teacher-trader than Bob. His knowledge of markets ingeneraland
precious metals in particular is encyclopedic. His desire to share
knowledgeandhelpotherslearncomesthroughclearlyfrompage
one.
If you are hoping to find the one and only answer to beat
Wall Street, you will be looking for a long, long time. Everybody
wants a quick fix and an easy answer, but in the high-stakesgame
of finance with so many brilliant players there are no easy
answers—only complex ones. And the answers can change from
minute to minute. You don’t go to the World Series of Poker if
you don’t know whether a flush beats a straight—because the
players who show up are not merely knowledgeable about poker,
they are obsessed. Only the best of the best need apply. So it is,
also, on Wall Street. Your training in derivatives begins with the
basics in Bob’s book and then it’s up to you to developexperience
and practice. If this is too much trouble, then maybe you don’t
really want to work on Wall Street.
If you will read only one book on derivatives, this is it. If
youfindabookthatmakescomplexmarketconceptssimplerthan
this, buy the book and keep it forever. You’ll have the first edition
of a classic. What Graham and Dodd did for simplifying and ex-
plaining security analysis, Bob’s book does for derivatives. Wall
Streeters do not have the mind or temperament to explain basic
details to beginners. That’s what makes Bob’s book so different—
there aren’t any other books like this out there.
Years ago, when I was a neophyte trying to understand the
vagaries of the markets and the esoterics of the forwards and fu-
tures, I would have given a month’s salary to have the simplistic
clarity that Bob brings to this topic in a sin