OPTION SPREAD
STRATEGIES
00_Saliba_FM.indd i 1/8/09 11:54:19 AM
Also by
ANTHONY J. SALIBA
with Joseph C. Corona and Karen E. Johnson
Option Strategies for Directionless Markets:
Trading with Butterflies, Iron Butterflies, and Condors
Related titles also available from Bloomberg Press
BLOOMBERG MARKET ESSENTIALS: TECHNICAL ANALYSIS
Fibonacci Analysis
by Constance Brown
DeMark Indicators
by Jason Perl
Breakthroughs in Technical Analysis:
New Thinking from the World’s Top Minds
edited by David Keller
New Insights on Covered Call Writing:
The Powerful Technique That Enhances Return
and Lowers Risk in Stock Investing
by Richard Lehman and Lawrence G. McMillan
New Thinking in Technical Analysis:
Trading Models from the Masters
edited by Rick Bensignor
Trading ETFs:
Gaining an Edge with Technical Analysis
by Deron Wagner
Trading Option Greeks:
How Timing, Volatility, and Other Pricing Factors Drive Profit
by Dan Passarelli
A complete list of our titles is available at
www.bloomberg.com/books
ATTENTION CORPORATIONS
This book is available for bulk purchase at special discounts. Special
editions or chapter reprints can also be customized to specifications.
For information, please e-mail Bloomberg Press, press@bloomberg.com,
Attention: Director of Special Markets or phone 212-617-7966.
00_Saliba_FM.indd ii 1/8/09 11:54:20 AM
OPTION SPREAD
STRATEGIES
Trading Up, Down,
and Sideways Markets
ANTHONY J.
SALIBA
with Joseph C. Corona
and Karen E. Johnson
BLOOMBERG PRESS
NEW YORK
00_Saliba_FM.indd iii 1/8/09 11:54:21 AM
© 2009 by International Trading Institute, Ltd. All rights reserved. Protected under the Berne
Convention. Printed in Canada. No part of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of the publisher except in the case of
brief quotations embodied in critical articles and reviews. For information, please write: Permissions
Department, Bloomberg Press, 731 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10022 or send an e-mail to
press@bloomberg.com.
BLOOMBERG, BLOOMBERG ANYWHERE, BLOOMBERG.COM, BLOOMBERG MARKET
ESSENTIALS, Bloomberg Markets, BLOOMBERG NEWS, BLOOMBERG PRESS, BLOOMBERG
PROFESSIONAL, BLOOMBERG RADIO, BLOOMBERG TELEVISION, and BLOOMBERG
TRADEBOOK are trademarks and service marks of Bloomberg Finance L.P. (“BFLP”), a Delaware
limited partnership, or its subsidiaries. The BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service (the “BPS”)
is owned and distributed locally by BFLP and its subsidiaries in all jurisdictions other than
Argentina, Bermuda, China, India, Japan, and Korea (the “BLP Countries”). BFLP is a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Bloomberg L.P. (“BLP”). BLP provides BFLP with all global marketing and
operational support and service for these products and distributes the BPS either directly or
through a non-BFLP subsidiary in the BLP Countries. All rights reserved.
This publication contains the authors’ opinions and is designed to provide accurate and authoritative
information. It is sold with the understanding that the authors, publisher, and Bloomberg L.P. are
not engaged in rendering legal, accounting, investment-planning, or other professional advice. The
reader should seek the services of a qualified professional for such advice; the authors, publisher, and
Bloomberg L.P. cannot be held responsible for any loss incurred as a result of specific investments or
planning decisions made by the reader.
First edition published 2009
1 3 5 7 9 10 8 6 4 2
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Saliba, Anthony J.
Option spread strategies : trading up, down, and sideways markets / Anthony J. Saliba with Joseph
C. Corona and Karen E. Johnson. — 1st ed.
p. cm.
Includes index.
Summary: “Proven author Anthony Saliba provides step-by-step instructions for spread trading
techniques for options traders. Saliba helps readers understand the nuances of each technique, when to
employ each spread strategy, and how to adjust when market conditions change. This hands-on guide
includes quizzes and a final exam to help readers test their comprehension”—Provided by publisher.
ISBN 978-1-57660-260-7 (alk. paper)
1. Stock options. 2. Options (Finance) I. Corona, Joseph C., 1957- II. Johnson, Karen E., 1967- III. Title.
HG6042.S245 2009
332.64'53—dc22
2008040986
00_Saliba_FM.indd iv 1/8/09 11:54:21 AM
Important Disclosures
Following are several important disclosures we are required to make
according to the rules of the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE), by
which we are governed. We encourage you to read them.
• Prior to buying or selling an option, one must receive a copy of the
booklet “Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options.” Cop-
ies of this document are available at www.theocc.com/publications/
risks/riskchap1.jsp or from International Trading Institute, Ltd., 311
South Wacker Dr., Suite 4700, Chicago, IL 60606.
• Options involve risk and are not suitable for all investors.
• In order to trade strategies discussed in this book, an individual must
first have his account approved by a broker/dealer for that specific
trading level.
• No statement in this book should be construed as a recommendation
to purchase or sell a security or as an attempt to provide investment
advice.
• Writers of uncovered calls or puts will be obligated to meet appli-
cable margin requirements for certain option strategies discussed in
this book.
• For transactions that involve buying and writing multiple options in
combination, it may be impossible at times to simultaneously execute
transactions in all of the options involved in the combination.
• There is increased risk exposure when you exercise or close out of
one side of a combination while the other side of the trade remains
outstanding.
• Because all option transactions have important tax considerations,
you should consult a tax adviser as to how taxes will affect the out-
come of contemplated options transactions.
• The examples in this book do not include commissions and other costs.
Transaction costs may be significant, especially in option s trategies
00_Saliba_FM.indd v 1/8/09 11:54:21 AM
vi Important Disclosures
calling for multiple purchases and sales of options, such as spreads
and straddles.
• Most spread transactions must be done in a margin account.
• Supporting documentation for any claims and statistical information
is available upon request by contacting International Trading Insti-
tute, Ltd., 311 South Wacker Dr., Suite 4700, Chicago, IL 60606.
00_Saliba_FM.indd vi 1/8/09 11:54:22 AM
Contents
Acknowledgments ix
Introduction xi
1 The Covered-Write 2
2 Verticals 28
3 Collars and Reverse-Collars 64
4 Straddles and Strangles 94
5 Butterflies and Condors 126
6 Calendar Spreads 156
7 Ratio Spreads 190
8 Backspreads 222
Appendix: Final Exam 249
Index 263
00_Saliba_FM.indd vii 1/8/09 11:54:22 AM
Acknowledgments
Our goal with this book was to take a basic approach to teaching the in-
tricacies of advanced option strategies so investors could successfully put
them to use in their own portfolios. I wish to thank my coauthors, Karen
Johnson and Joe Corona, for their diligent efforts on this project.
In addition, I wish to express my gratitude to several of our staff, in-
cluding David Schmueck, Christopher Hausman, and Scott Mollner, for
their proofreading and edits of the manuscript.
I would like to extend a special thank you to the staff at Bloomberg
Press, including Stephen Isaacs, JoAnne Kanaval, and Judith Sjo-Gaber,
and to Kelli Christiansen at bibliobibuli, all of whom were very helpful
and patient throughout the process.
Lastly, I wish to thank my agent, Cynthia Zigmund, for presenting me
with this opportunity.
Anthony J. Saliba
Founder
International Trading Institute
ix
00_Saliba_FM.indd ix 1/8/09 11:54:23 AM
Introduction
The fact that listed option trading volumes are exploding is not news.
As of May 1, 2008, volume is up approximately 41 percent over 2007,
which was also a record year. Option volumes have grown at a rate
of approximately 30 percent per year for the last four years, and have more
than tripled since 2000.
The forces driving option growth are much larger than recent market
volatility and the need to hedge risk—after all, much of the double-digit
growth took place during the low-volatility years of 2003 through early
2007. Several forces have combined to give the individual investor greater
access to the options markets and to help level the playing field for the
individ ual and the professional options traders:
Technology—All exchanges are now fully or partially electronic. This
has opened up access to the individual options trader, as brokers now sup-
ply front-end systems that offer direct connections to every exchange and
tools to help analyze, execute, and manage position risk.
Commissions—Commission rates continue to plummet as brokers lev-
erage technology and compete for business.
Number of viable exchanges—The number of options exchanges con-
tinues to defy predictions and grow. With the recent addition of the Nas-
daq Options Market (NOM), the number has now reached seven. These
exchanges are in competition for the business of individual investors, and
fee reductions and other incentives are the result.
Educational resources—The number of entities dedicated to options
education and training continues to increase, along with the number of in-
vestors utilizing their services. The exchanges, the Options Industry Coun-
cil, brokers, and other private entities offer robust programs at low cost.
Tighter bid-ask spreads—Although it is having a large negative im-
pact on institutional options traders, the penny pilot program is very ben-
eficial to the smaller individual investor because it has tightened spreads
in many popular names.
xi
00_Saliba_FM.indd xi 1/8/09 11:54:24 AM
xii Introduction
The bigger news in the U.S.-listed options market is the growth in the
electronic trading of spreads. Behind the scenes the volume of trading of
complex option structures has outpaced overall growth in options trading.
This book is dedicated to the art (and science) of spread trading. A number
of factors have contributed to the explosion in spread trading:
Electronic spread books—Currently the Chicago Board Options Ex-
change (CBOE) and the International Securities Exchange (ISE) offer elect ronic
spread books (the Philadelphia Stock Exchange [PHLX] is not far behind).
These electronic “complex order books” allow traders the potential to elec-
tronically enter and trade multileg spread orders of various strategies—all of
which are covered in this book—without the risk of being “legged” (missing
one side of the spread). Spreads also can be traded in penny increments even
if their underlying options cannot.
Ease of entry and exit—These same electronic spread books are ac-
cessible through the same front-end systems offered by most brokers. (If a
broker doesn’t offer direct access to the spread books, it is time to switch
brokers.)
Portfolio-based margining—In the past, the margining of spreads
sometimes made them economically unrealistic for many investors. The
availability of portfolio-based margining at many brokers has made spread
margining more realistic and affordable for many investors.
Limited-risk strategies—Spreads offer investors different ways to
participate in market scenarios in a limited-risk fashion. Vertical spreads,
butterflies, condors, and time spreads are all limited-risk strategies that the
investor can use to address different market scenarios. (After the recent
subprime meltdown, limiting risk has once again become fashionable.)
Spread trading is the new frontier for the individual options trader, and
this frontier is opening up rapidly. This book is dedicated to spread strate-
gies, both of the limited-risk and unlimited-risk varieties, and to how and
when to use them.
00_Saliba_FM.indd xii 1/8/09 11:54:24 AM
Option Spread Strategies: Trading Up, Down, and Sideway