PROFIT WITH
OPTIONS
Y
L
F
M
A
E
T
Team-Fly®
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent
publishing company in the United States. With offices in North
America, Europe, Australia, and Asia, Wiley is globally commit-
ted to developing and marketing print and electronic products
and services for our customers’ professional and personal
knowledge and understanding.
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have
survived the market’s ever changing temperament and have
prospered—some by reinventing systems, others by getting back
to basics. Whether a novice trader, professional, or somewhere
in between, these books will provide the advice and strategies
needed to prosper today and well into the future.
For a list of available titles, please visit our Web site at
www.WileyFinance.com.
A Marketplace Book
PROFIT WITH
OPTIONS
Essential Methods for
Investing Success
LAWRENCE G. McMILLAN
JOHN WILEY & SONS, INC.
Copyright © 2002 by Lawrence G. McMillan. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New York.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, scanning or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of
the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission
of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee
to the Copyright Clearance Center, 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923,
(978) 750-8400, fax (978) 750-4744. Requests to the Publisher for permission
should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc.,
605 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10158-0012, (212) 850-6011, fax (212) 850-6008,
E-Mail: PERMREQ@WILEY.COM.
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in
regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the
publisher is not engaged in rendering professional services. If professional advice
or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional
person should be sought.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that
appears in print may not be available in electronic books. For more information
about Wiley products visit our Web site at www.Wiley.com.
ISBN 0-471-22531-2
Printed in the United States of America.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
PREFACE
Over the years, I’ve written two thick books on options trading
that have a combined page count over 1,500. I write a weekly
advisory newsletter, as well as a daily fax service. So what, you
may wonder, do I have left to write about on the topic of options
trading?
With this book, my goal is not necessarily to cover a lot of in-
novative new ground, but to present material in a new way that
will enhance the ability of traders to master a variety of option
trading techniques and become more successful at incorporat-
ing them into their overall trading program. My first book, Op-
tions as a Strategic Investment is, at 998 pages, a complete
reference text that covers nearly every aspect of options trading
in depth. McMillan on Options is more focused on how to apply
various options strategies, including the ones I personally pre-
fer and use frequently. What has been missing—based on feed-
back received from my readers, seminar attendees, and
subscribers—is a book that covers each phase of the options
trading process step-by-step, reinforces individual concepts, and
thus allows you to hone and refine skills—in essence, a work-
book or study guide.
In Profit with Options I have attempted to provide an
overview of the options trading process in a more concise,
hands-on way. Each chapter covers a specific concept and ends
v
vi PREFACE
with a set of review questions and answers that will assist you
in absorbing and implementing the material covered.
While the introduction does address basic terms and the
building blocks of option trading concepts, the book as a whole is
written for someone with some degree of investment and trad-
ing experience. The first chapter also moves right into the com-
ponents of option price, using historical and implied volatility
to formulate your option trading strategy, and understanding
the advantages an option model can provide. Plus, LEAPS, fu-
tures, and trading technology are each treated in detail.
Chapters 2 and 3 explain how to use options as both direct
and contrary indicators, with examples showing how each can
predict market direction and help you decide which options to
buy under both scenarios.
Chapter 4 teaches you how to incorporate system trading
into an overall options game plan and illustrates the value of
taking the system approach. A variety of systems types are
outlined that are applicable for both short-term and long-term
investors.
Chapter 5 presents powerful methods for using options as
“insurance” and portfolio protection, which is one of their key
strengths.
Chapters 6 and 7 conclude with various strategies for profit-
ing from trading volatility. I start by viewing volatility as a
strategic indicator, and then move into both forward and re-
verse “skew” and spreading strategies. I then provide a more in-
depth look at volatility analysis, the reasons behind volatility
changes, and highlight my own favorite strategy plus personal
criteria for buying straddles, “follow-up” action, and selling
naked options.
Each chapter of the workbook can stand on its own, but
taken together, they form the basis of a well-rounded options
trading program. With the end-of-chapter questions provided,
you can test your knowledge of the concepts, techniques, and
systems featured in Profit with Options before you need to put
PREFACE vii
them into action in the real trading world. And this learn-by-
example workbook should prepare you for making the right
moves at the right time, while reacting swiftly to opportunities
that arise in the fast-paced options arena.
It is my hope that this hands-on guide will complement my
previous two works. You can now access a comprehensive re-
source on options, a product devoted primarily to strategies in
action, and a manual that helps to reinforce tactics and refine
option trading skills.
I have devoted much of my career to educating investors on
the fundamentals and the benefits of trading options. I think
they provide enormous wealth-building potential for anyone who
has mastered a proficiency in trading options. And I hope, after
completing this handbook, that you will have a better working
knowledge of how to use options to diversify and enhance a
portfolio.
LAWRENCE G.MCMILLAN
April 2002
CONTENTS
Chapter 1
Introduction 1
Chapter 2
Options as Direct Indicators 31
Chapter 3
Options as Contrary Indicators 79
Chapter 4
System Trading 123
Chapter 5
Protecting a Stock Portfolio 163
Chapter 6
Trading Volatility 179
Chapter 7
Buy Low and Sell High—Volatility, That Is 211
Answers to Review Questions 251
Glossary 267
Index 271
ix
1
INTRODUCTION
L O
EARNING BJECTIVES
The material in this chapter will help you to:
• Become familiar with the terms and concepts of option
trading.
• Analyze the components of option price.
• Use historical and implied volatility to formulate your op-
tion trading strategy.
• Understand the benefits an option model can provide.
• Understand the advantages and disadvantages of trading
futures.
A call option gives you the right to purchase something at a
specified price, and that option is normally “good” for only a pre-
determined length of time. There are options in many facets of
life—real estate, executive stock options, and the focus of this
book: listed options. The “something” that you may purchase is
called the underlying instrument (the underlying). It could
be a stock, it could be an index, or it could be a futures contract.
1
2 INTRODUCTION
The specified price at which that underlying instrument can be
bought is called the strike price.Finally, the date by which the
option must be used is called the expiration date. These three
terms completely define the option. For example, an IBM July
120 call is an option to buy IBM (the underlying instrument) at
a price of 120 (the strike price) at any time through July (the
expiration date).
For stock and index options, the last trading day is the third
Friday of the month, so the expiration Ydate is that day. (Actu-
ally, for legal reasons, it’s technicallyL the next day—but that’s a
Saturday, so for all intents and purposes, Friday is considered
F
to be the expiration date.) For futures options, expiration dates
M
vary within the expiration month. We’ll talk more about them
later. The material in this chapter lays the groundwork for your
A
development as an option strategist.
E
T
IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONCEPTS
An important concept is that of a put option. A put option al-
lows the holder to sell the underlying security at the strike price
up until the expiration date. Thus, call options increase in price
when the price of the underlying security rises, and put options
increase in price when the price of the underlying security falls.
Options were traded over-the-counter for years, but
in 1973 the Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE)
was formed and the innovations that they brought
to the marketplace have resulted in the huge market
we now have for listed options.
The biggest innovation was the introduction of a liquid mar-
ket in options. Options can be bought and sold at any time, just
as shares of stock can be bought and sold. It is not necessary to
Team-Fly®
IMPORTANT TERMS AND CONCEPTS 3
Table 1.1 Derivative Types
Equity options (e.g., LEAPS)
Index and sector options (e.g., S&P 500, OEX; oil and gas, gold)
Listed warrants (similar to option but behaves more like stock)
Futures options/serial options
Over-the-counter options (e.g., Swaps—interest-rate trades)
hold the option until its expiration date. Therefore, if you were
to buy that IBM July 120 call, and then IBM stock price rose
shortly thereafter—perhaps rising well above the strike price
120—most likely the call would gain some value. You could just
phone your broker and sell the call to take your profit. You
would not have to worry about whether or not IBM was above
the strike price of 120 at expiration.
Options are a derivative security. That is, their price
movements are taken from the movements in another security
(the underlying stock, for example). Over the years, since listed
options began trading on the Chicago Board Options Exchange
(CBOE), there have been many different types of listed securi-
ties. Index and sector optionsare merely options on an index
or a sector index (for example, the S&P 500 Index or the Semi-
conductor Index). Warrants have been listed on the New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE) for years, but the current type of war-
rants being traded—particularly on the American Stock Ex-
change (AMEX)—generally play either currencies or the market
as an option security. With warrants, you can own the market
without much risk. Over-the-counter options are options
that are traded directly, generally by big firms such as Morgan
Stanley or institutions such as mutual funds. See Table 1.1 for
a summary of derivative types.
Here are a few other terms that may be of interest:
• In-the-money/out-of-the-money. When the underly-
ing is trading higher than the strike price of a call
4 INTRODUCTION
option, the call option is said to be in-the-money.
If the underlying is below the strike price, the call is
said to be out-of-the-money. Conversely, a put option is
in-the-money when the underlying instrument is trad-
ing at a price lower than the strike price and out-of-
the-money when the underlying is trading above the
strike price.
• Exercise the option. Converting the option into the un-
derlying instrument is exercising the option. A person who
exercises one IBM July 120 call would get 100 shares of
IBM in his or her account, and t