PROFITABLE
CANDLESTICK TRADING
Pinpointing Market
Opportunities to Maximize Profits
Stephen Bigalow
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
New York • Chichester • Weinheim • Brisbane • Singapore • Toronto
PROFITABLE
CANDLESTICK TRADING
Copyright © 2002 by StephenBigalow. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
transmitted in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying,
recording, scanning or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of
the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written
permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate
per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers,
MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 750-4744. Requests to the Publisher for
permission should be addressed to the Permissions Department, John Wiley &
Sons, Inc., 605 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10158-0012, (212) 850-6011,
fax (212) 850-6008, E-Mail: PERMREQ@WILEY.COM.
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in
regard to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the
publisher is not engaged in rendering professional services. If professional advice
or other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional
person should be sought.
This title is also available in print as ISBN 0-471-02466-X. Some content that appears
in the print version of this book may not be available in this electronic edition.
For more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at www.Wiley.com.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This book was made possible through the influences and inspiration of many
people. It is hard to decide who to mention first due to the integral input of
all during the process of writing this book.
My first and foremost thanks goes to my mother June Bigalow who has
always been there to support my endeavors. I am also blessed with a great
and supportive brother and sister, along with their families. Their support
through this effort has been greatly appreciated.
I am forever grateful for the encouragement from friends and business
acquaintances, who have since become good friends, for their parts in advanc-
ing the progress of this book. Drew and Dee Dee Vickers, Dan Dubose, Daryl
and Barbara Thompson have been great inspirers. Wally and Rose Ann
Peckham provided great coaching as well as a refuge to clear the mind for
the next go-round of typing. Mark Storey has been a constant source of inno-
vative ideas and procedures through the years for the development of invest-
ment programs. Ken Melber has patiently gone through the experience of
actual trading programs, sorting out the good and bad, and finally benefiting
from the establishment of trading rules. Dave Goddard lent his genius in sta-
tistical analysis whenever was requested.
Professor Abbie Smith, of Chicago University, receives my thanks for
being the initial inspiration for writing this book. Mike Harper, President of
the Houston chapter of the Market Technicians Association, has been a great
help with his extensive background in Elliot Wave analysis.
Many thanks go to my friends and associates at Enron Corporation in
Houston, Texas. Mike Roberts has my heartfelt thanks for the work he did
way above the call of duty. His many hours of editing and format suggestions
will never be forgotten. I don’t know what I would have done without his
gracious assistance. Vince Kaminski and Gary Hickerson contributed invalu-
able access to functional trading concepts and research integration along with
intellectual encouragement. Consulting with the experts at Enron
Corporation, a high-class, well-run operation, was a fantastic experience
while writing the book. And it produced a great number of strong friendships.
v
vi Profitable Candlestick Trading
Many thanks go to my Cornell University, DU fraternity buddies for their
encouragement and insights. Their inspiration to put my best foot forward
acted as a goal for me throughout my many hours of hunt-and-peck typing.
Thanks to the CQG Company for providing clear and easy to work with
charts. Also thanks to TC2000 for providing an efficient search software pro-
gram.
A special thanks goes out to my agent, Robert Deforio, for his guidance
in working with publishers. And I feel fortunate to have worked with
Claudio Campuzano at John Wiley & Sons, Inc. His counseling and guidance
has made the experience of publishing this book a pleasant one. Marie
Garcarz is greatly appreciated for her valued advice and direction.
To keep from possibly blemishing any reputations associated with those
acknowledged as providing something toward the completion of this book,
it should be noted that any factual errors or omissions found within this book
are solely my responsibility.
CONTENTS
Chapter 1 Introduction 1
Chapter 2 The Reversal Patterns 19
Chapter 3 Continuation Patterns 103
Chapter 4 Major Signals Explained 129
Chapter 5 Finding and Learning the Signals Made Easy 153
Chapter 6 Common Patterns 161
Chapter 7 Revolutionizing Investor Psychology 185
Chapter 8 Analyzing Profitable Trades 203
Chapter 9 Maximizing Profits 221
Chapter 10 Trading Programs 239
Chapter 11 Using Candlesticks to Improve Elliot Wave Analysis 259
Chapter 12 Option Trading Refined 273
Chapter 13 Candlesticks with Commodities and Futures 283
Chapter 14 The Ultimate Investment Program 289
vii
viii Contents
Chapter 15 Candlestick Trading Rules 301
Chapter 16 Conclusion 307
Glossary 311
Index 317
PREFACE
Japanese Candlestick charting and analysis is one of the most effective tech-
nical methodologies in the universe of technical analysis. This bold state-
ment is consistent with the same statements that were made one to two
decades ago in books written about Candlesticks when they were first intro-
duced into the United States. The exact same problems that appeared to keep
the Candlestick method out of the limelight back then have persisted to
make Candlesticks still a fairly underused method today. Through the years,
the number of people who have become proficient users of Candlestick analy-
sis has been minimal. Nearly two decades of using the signals have produced
two basic revelations: the signals are extremely accurate, and it is unusual
that more people have not become advocates of the technique.
One of the most powerful investment techniques has been sitting in front
of the U.S. investment community, yet it has not exploded in popularity as
one would expect. Years of informal surveys have reached this conclusion.
There is a definite perception about Candlestick trading. It is seen as requir-
ing a long time to learn and become proficient at it. That is the major rea-
son the majority of investors have stayed away from Candlesticks. That
misconception is what spurred the writing of this book. Other books on the
topic were written nearly a decade ago. Those books were informational and
well written, however, they were published in somewhat of a vacuum. Once
the books were read, each investor was out there on his or her own. The num-
ber of people to confer with after first becoming exposed to the Candlestick
method was minimal. The ideas were new in the United States and there
were few places to turn to for guidance.
For the past two decades, most investors have been aware of Candlesticks.
The most common statement is, “They know about Candlesticks; they just
don’t know how they work.” An extremely high percentage of chart follow-
ers have the Candlestick formations on their charts versus the standard bar
charts. This is due to the favorable visual impact. The illustrative properties
of the Candlestick chart make viewing much easier.
Four hundred years of research by profitable Japanese rice traders was the
inception of statistical analysis. What may take computers one afternoon to
ix
x Preface
perform, the Japanese rice traders assembled over centuries of time. However,
there is a definite benefit involved with human interpretation of these sig-
nals. The Japanese traders were able to describe the investor sentiment
behind the formation of the signals. This becomes an extremely powerful
asset for exploiting profits from markets that involve human emotions.
Being thoroughly convinced that Candlestick analysis surpasses all other
technical analysis induced me to eliminate the misperceptions. Japanese
Candlesticks is definitely not a passing fad. It is here stay and effectively
extract profits from the trading markets—profits for those who take the lit-
tle time required to become acquainted with the Candlestick thinking
process.
Not only does the knowledge of what a signal looks like benefit the can-
dlestick educated investor, but learning the common-sense psychology that
formed the signal provides the investor with a whole new perspective into
successful investing. Somebody is making huge profits in the markets. It is
not the conventional wisdom advocates, buy and hold. The big winners are
those who have developed successful methods for interpreting when to buy
and sell. Candlestick analysis is that method. Read this book and your invest-
ment abilities will be forever improved, improved to the point of not just con-
stantly exceeding market averages, but being able to exploit the indications
of the signals to amass extraordinary profits.
Once you learn the Japanese Candlestick technique, your understanding
of how investment markets work will dramatically alter your investment
psychology. The probabilities of producing magnificent profits will always
be in your favor. Learn Candlesticks and reap the knowledge that has led to
centuries of successful trading.
Stephen W. Bigalow
Houston, Texas
Chapter 1
INTRODUCTION
The learning of books, that you do not make your own wisdom, is
money in the hands of another in time of need. Japanese Proverb
Japanese Candlestick analysis is a highly effective, but under-used invest-
ment decision-making technique. Most people in the United States’ invest-
ment community are aware of Candlestick analysis, but few understand how
or why it actually works. Candlestick charts reveal many insights using well-
recognized Japanese candlestick formations, yet few people understand
the ramifications or significance of the signals that are clearly and reliably
displayed.
This book was written to educate investors on how to use the Japanese
Candlestick technique profitably. The easy-to-follow procedures detailed in
this book provide the reader with profit-making techniques that can be
learned quickly. More importantly, learning the principles of market psy-
chology underlying the Candlestick methodology will revolutionize the
reader’s overall investment psyche forever. While this may sound bold and
far-fetched, fortunes have been made using the Japanese Candlestick tech-
niques. Knowing how to use the candlesticks and why they work will imme-
diately improve the reader’s investment profitability and permanently alter
overall investment perceptions. This newly acquired perception will produce
consistent profits along with an associated mental re-programming designed
to maximize investment returns. Once an investor becomes convinced of the
reliability of the Candlestick methodology, that investor also acquires a pre-
programmed investment discipline. As a result, Candlesticks add a whole
new dimension to enhancing the investor’s profit-making abilities.
Most readers will be surprised at how the knowledge gained from a close
reading of this book dramatically enhances investment abilities across all
investment vehicles and over all trading timeframes. More than 400 years
of refined reversal-identification and trend continuity projection is now at
the reader’s disposal. Mastering the candlestick methodology will be the next
major step for maximizing investment returns.
Why aren’t the Candlestick signals used more? Why, if the signals demon-
strate such a high degr