SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
"Tricks, tips and rules from interviews with Millionaire Traders…"
You have permission to distribute this special report to friends and trading colleagues,
as long as it is distributed in the current form without modification in any way.
No portion of this report may be reproduced in any format written or electronic
without the express written permission of Netfutures Inc.
Copyright © Netfutures
150 S. Wacker Dr., Suite 2350
Chicago, IL USA 60606
In association
with…
www.Netfutures.com
"…an award-winning futures brokerage firm"
www.The-Way-To-Trade.com
"…a revolutionary approach to trading."
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 1
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
IIINNNTTTRRROOODDDUUUCCCTTTIIIOOONNN
A very small percentage of all traders are
successful.
Yet, some traders accumulate more than
1 million dollars in trading profits.
What do the successful traders do differently?
Searching for the answer to this question is what prompted
interviews with several millionaire traders.
Some of the rules that millionaires use are familiar to all traders.
Others may be contrary to the common beliefs.
"The most important factor is not what set of rules you use, but
your discipline",
noted one of the traders interviewed.
These are the rules that were generated from the interviews with
the millionaires…
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 2
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
AAACCCKKKNNNOOOWWWLLLEEEDDDGGGEEEMMMEEENNNTTTSSS
I would like to thank the team at Netfutures for their help with
this ebook.
First of all for conducting the interviews with the millionaire
traders and secondly for editing them down into such a
presentable and readable format.
In particular I would like to single out one person - Lee Snyder
for his help and support, both with this ebook and my trading in
general.
Lee you truly are a gent!!
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 3
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111 ---
UUUssseee mmmooonnneeeyyy yyyooouuu cccaaannn aaaffffffooorrrddd tttooo lllooossseee...
If you are trading with funds you need for some
family project, you are doomed to failure.
This is because you won't be able to enjoy the
mental freedom to make sound trading decisions,
say the millionaire traders.
Your trading funds should be viewed as money
you are willing to lose.
Your position should be carefully analyzed so you
don't jeopardize other funds or assets.
One of the keys to successful trading is mental
independence.
"You've got to trade outside influencing factors,
and that means your trading freedom must not be
influenced by the fear of losing money you really
have earmarked for a specific need",
said one trader.
"The market place is not the arena for scared
money", agreed another.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 4
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###222 ---
KKKnnnooowww yyyooouuurrrssseeelllfff...
You need an objective temperament, an ability to
control emotions and carry a position without
losing sleep.
Although trading discipline can be developed, the
successful traders are unemotional about their
position.
Click here to learn more about developing
discipline and removing emotional trading.
Successful traders suggest that people who can't
control emotions look elsewhere for profits.
"There are many exciting things happening in the
market everyday, so it takes a hard-nosed type of
attitude and an ability to stand above short-term
circumstances.
If you do not have this attitude you will be
changing your mind and your position every few
minutes",
noted one of the millionaires.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 5
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
~
RRRUUULLLEEE ###333 ---
SSStttaaarrrttt sssmmmaaallllll...
Test your trading ability by making paper trades.
Then begin to trade small.
If you are trading emini contracts, trade a single
contract. If you are trading commodities trade
small lots of 1000 to 3000 bushels of grain at a
time.
If your broker doesn't allow you to trade in small
lots or single contracts, start with something less
volatile, e.g. in commodities trade oats.
Beginning traders should learn the mechanics of
trading before graduating to more volatile
contracts.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 6
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###444 ---
DDDooonnn'''ttt ooovvveeerrr cccooommmmmmiiittt...
One rule of thumb is to keep three times the
money in your margin account than is needed for
that particular position.
Reduce your position if necessary to conform to
that rule.
This rule helps you avoid trading decisions based
on the amount of money in your margin account.
If you are under-margined you may be forced to
liquidate a position early, at a costly loss that could
have been avoided.
Click here to learn more about margin and the
futures market in general.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 7
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###555 ---
IIIsssooolllaaattteee yyyooouuurrr tttrrraaadddiiinnnggg fffrrrooommm yyyooouuurrr
dddeeesssiiirrreee fffooorrr ppprrrooofffiiittt ...
Don't hope for a move so much that your trade is
based on hope.
The successful trader is able to isolate his trading
from his emotion.
Although hope is a great virtue in other areas of
life, it can be a real hindrance to a trader." said
once trader.
When hoping that the market will turn around in
their favor, beginners often violate basic trading
rules.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 8
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###666 ---
DDDooonnn'''ttt fffooorrrmmm nnneeewww ooopppiiinnniiiooonnnsss ddduuurrriiinnnggg
tttrrraaadddiiinnnggg hhhooouuurrrsss...
Decide upon a basic course of action, then don't let
the ups and downs during the day upset your game
play.
Decisions made during the trading day based upon
a price move or a news item are usually disastrous,
say the millionaires.
Successful traders prefer to formulate a basic
opinion before the market opens, then look for the
proper time to execute a decision that has been
made - apart from the emotion of the current
market.
When a trader completely changes his direction
during the trading day, it can confuse him and may
result in generating lots of commissions with little
profit.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 9
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###777 ---
TTTaaakkkeee aaa tttrrraaadddiiinnnggg bbbrrreeeaaakkk...
Trading every day begins to dull your judgement.
One successful trader commented:
"When I fall to 90% of mental efficiency, I begin to
break even. Anything below that I begin to lose."
This trader takes a complete trading break every
five or six weeks. If he has been successful he
goes to Florida, if not he stays in Chicago.
A trading break helps you take a detached view of
the market, and tends to give you a fresh look at
yourself and the way you want to trade for the next
several weeks.
"Sometimes you get so close to the forest you can't
see the trees," said one trader.
"A break helps me see the market factors in a
better perspective."
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 10
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###888 ---
DDDooonnn'''ttt fffooollllllooowww ttthhheee cccrrrooowwwddd...
Successful traders like breathing room. When
everyone seems to be long, they look for a reason
to be short. Historically, the public tends to be
wrong.
Successful traders feel uncomfortable when their
position is popular with the buying public,
especially small traders.
Periodic government reports on the position of
traders of various sizes provide "overcrowding"
clues. Another clue is "contrary opinion".
When most of the advisory services are long, for
example, the successful trader gets ready to move
to the sideline or to take a short position.
Some services give a reading on market sentiment
determined by compiling opinions from many
advisory services.
If 85% of the analysts are bullish, this indicates an
overbought situation. If less than 25% are bullish,
this indicates an oversold condition.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 11
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###999 ---
BBBllloooccckkk ooouuuttt ooottthhheeerrr ooopppiiinnniiiooonnnsss...
Don't be influenced in your trading by what
someone says, or you will continually change your
mind.
Once you have formed a basic opinion in the
market direction, don't allow yourself to be easily
influenced.
You can always find someone who can give you
what appear to be logical reasons for reversing
your position.
If you listen to these outside views, you may be
tempted to change your mind only to find later that
holding your opinion would have been more
profitable.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 12
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111000 ---
WWWhhheeennn yyyooouuu'''rrreee nnnooottt sssuuurrreee,,, ssstttaaannnddd aaasssiiidddeee...
Don't feel that you have to trade every day, or even
hold a position every day.
The beginning trader is tempted to trade or hold a
position every day and this is a costly tendency.
The successful traders develop patience and
discipline to wait for an opportunity.
After they have taken a position and begin to feel
uncomfortable, successful traders either reduce the
size of the position or liquidate.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 13
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111111 ---
TTTrrryyy tttooo aaavvvoooiiiddd mmmaaarrrkkkeeettt ooorrrdddeeerrrsss...
Putting in an order to buy or sell at market may
show a lack of discipline, according to one
successful trader.
To avoid violating this rule, he places specific
price limit orders.
However there are times when he wants to
liquidate a position immediately. Then the market
order is helpful.
Your goal should be to minimize the use of market
orders.
For an in depth review of the futures market, how
it works, all the different types of order and much
more, click here.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 14
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111222 ---
TTTrrraaadddeee ttthhheee mmmooosssttt aaaccctttiiivvveee mmmooonnnttthhh...
If you are trading emini contracts, there are
contracts expiring in March, June, September and
December. The nearest month is usually the most
active contract until the last few days before
expiry.
If you are trading commodities, trade the contract
with the highest volume and open interest. For
example with soybeans, November, March and
July usually have the highest volume and open
interest, depending on the season.
Trading these active months should enable you to
get in and out easily.
A similar caution should be noted for inactive
commodities. Low volume commodities are not
the markets for beginning traders because it may
be difficult to liquidate a position when you want
out.
A good broker will be able to give you help in this
area
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www