SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
"Tricks, tips and rules from interviews with Millionaire Traders - Volume II…"
You have permission to distribute this special report to friends and trading colleagues,
as long as it is distributed in the current form without modification in any way.
No portion of this report may be reproduced in any format written or electronic
without the express written permission of Netfutures Inc.
Copyright © Netfutures
150 S. Wacker Dr., Suite 2350
Chicago, IL USA 60606
In association
with…
www.Netfutures.com
"…an award-winning futures brokerage firm"
www.The-Way-To-Trade.com
"…a revolutionary approach to trading."
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 1
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
IIINNNTTTRRROOODDDUUUCCCTTTIIIOOONNN
A very small percentage of all traders are
successful.
Yet, some traders accumulate more than
1 million dollars in trading profits.
What do the successful traders do differently?
Searching for the answer to this question is what prompted
interviews with several millionaire traders.
Some of the rules that millionaires use are familiar to all traders.
Others may be contrary to the common beliefs.
This is volume II compiled from these interviews and follows on
from the hugely influential first 25 rules, secrets and tips.
However, some of the most powerful rules have been held back
for volume II…..
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 2
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111 ---
UUUssseee ssstttoooppp ooorrrdddeeerrrsss cccaaauuutttiiiooouuussslllyyy...
Stop orders are easy discipline. They may help you
cut losses short automatically.
An important factor is to place your stop when you
place your order. If you don't, you're tempted to
give the market "a few more pennies", only adding
to your potential loss.
But remember, you should use stop loss orders
with great discretion because stops that are placed
too tight can put you out of the market with a loss
very quickly.
You can become "whipsawed" by poor placement
of stops.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 3
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###222 ---
GGGeeettt ooouuuttt bbbeeefffooorrreee cccooonnntttrrraaacccttt mmmaaatttuuurrriiitttyyy...
When trading e-mini contracts, trading becomes
very thin in the last few days before the contract
expires. You may not find it so easy to exit at a
favorable price, particularly if you have several
contracts.
When trading commodities, the price of a
commodity during the delivery month may be
more volatile. The beginning trader should move
into later month contracts to avoid this added
risk.
The profit potential in making and taking
delivery is one that should only be handled by the
experienced cash market trader.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 4
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
~
RRRUUULLLEEE ###333 ---
IIIgggnnnooorrreee nnnooorrrmmmaaalll ssseeeaaasssooonnnaaalll tttrrreeennndddsss...
Although the price of corn historically goes down
at harvest, one of the millionaire traders doesn't let
that influence his trading.
"Too many people try to trade seasonal trends, so
look for a place to do just the opposite,"
he suggests.
RRRUUULLLEEE ###444 ---
TTTrrraaadddeee dddiiivvveeerrrgggeeennnccceee fffrrrooommm ttthhheee nnnooorrrmmmaaalll...
This rule is one of the big keys some successful
traders use regularly. They trade divergence from
the normal or from what is expected. If traders in
general believe the market is headed higher and
the rally fails, it's usually a good sell signal.
Wait for market traders in general to lean one way,
then time a trade in the opposite direction.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 5
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###555 ---
AAAvvvoooiiiddd pppiiiccckkkiiinnnggg tttooopppsss aaannnddd bbbooottttttooommmsss...
When you go against the trend, believing that the
market has either topped or bottomed, you are
making yourself very vulnerable.
This can be a very costly lesson to learn, say the
millionaires. They prefer to let the market price
action prove that a top or bottom has been formed.
RRRUUULLLEEE ###666 ---
BBBuuuyyy bbbuuulllllliiissshhh nnneeewwwsss,,, ssseeellllll ttthhheee fffaaacccttt...
If market rumors are bullish, then you should buy
on the news.
But when the news reports turn into a reality, then
it is time to "sell the fact".
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 6
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###777 ---
BBBuuullllll mmmaaarrrkkkeeetttsss dddiiieee ooofff ooovvveeerrrwwweeeiiiggghhhttt...
There's an old stock market rule that says that bull
markets can fall flat on their own weight when
prices get top heavy.
Be especially sensitive to bearish news if you're
long.
RRRUUULLLEEE ###888 ---
LLLooooookkk fffooorrr gggooooooddd oooddddddsss...
Look for opportunities where the loss potential is
small in relation to the profit potential. For
example, if a market is trading near its recent
historic lows, it could mean a long position has
great upside potential in relation to possible loss.
Watching the trading range of a market over a
longer time period helps you have the perspective
to determine the odds.
Market fundamentals can also be helpful in finding
the "high odds" situation.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 7
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###999 ---
AAAlllwwwaaayyysss tttaaakkkeee wwwiiinnndddfffaaallllll ppprrrooofffiiitttsss...
Sometimes you take a position and within 48 hours
you have more profit than you ever expected.
Rather than watching the market a few days to
figure out why the profit came so fast, the
millionaires say "Take quick profits and run!"
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111000 ---
LLLeeeaaarrrnnn tttooo ssseeellllll ssshhhooorrrttt...
Most beginners tend to be bulls, which means they
buy markets that they think will go higher.
Since markets often fall faster than they rise, you
can frequently earn quicker profits by selling short.
Learn to trade from the short side of the market.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 8
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111111 ---
AAAcccttt ppprrrooommmppptttlllyyy...
The futures market is not kind to those who
procrastinate. The rule of thumb the millionaires
use is to act promptly. This doesn’t mean you
should be impulsive, but if your judgement says
you should liquidate a position, do it immediately.
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111222 ---
DDDooonnn'''ttt rrreeevvveeerrrssseee yyyooouuurrr pppooosssiiitttiiiooonnn...
When your position is a loser and you decide to
get out, don't make a 180-degree turn. For
example, if you have been long and decide the
market is working against you, get out and stand
aside for a while before going short.
If you reverse a position you can be whipsawed -
losing as the market goes down, then losing more
as the market moves up.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 9
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111333 ---
DDDooonnn'''ttt bbbeee aaa nnniiiccckkkeeelll aaannnddd dddiiimmmeeerrr...
If you want to be long, don't put a price limit order
in a couple of pennies below the market, hoping to
find a bargain.
People who try to squeeze an extra penny out of
the market frequently find the market moves
almost to their target, then slips away.
In hoping for an extra penny, they may give up
much more.
When you think it's time to do something, make
your move.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 10
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111444 ---
KKKnnnooowww ttthhheee ppprrriiiccceee tttrrreeennnddd...
You can identify major price trends by using line
charts, one of the fundamental tools of the
successful trader. The mistake that many traders
make is to buy or be long while the markets are
still in a basic downtrend or selling short when
they are in up trends.
Charting markets yourself or subscribing to a chart
service can help avoid costly errors of selling into
obvious up trends and buying downtrends.
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111555 ---
WWWaaatttccchhh fffooorrr kkkeeeyyy bbbrrreeeaaakkkooouuutttsss ttthhhrrrooouuuggghhh
tttrrreeennnddd llliiinnneeesss...
Some successful traders trade almost exclusively
on this rule. They make bar charts. When prices
break through a trendline and trade outside of the
trendline for two or three days, it's usually a good
trading signal. This violation of a downtrend line
is a buy signal; the reverse is also true for a sell
signal when an uptrend line is penetrated. The
trendlines then give you some guidelines for
determining stops.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 11
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111666 ---
his completes Part 1 of
WWWaaatttccchhh fffooorrr 555000%%% rrreeetttrrraaaccceeemmmeeennntttsss ooofff aaa
mmmaaajjjooorrr mmmooovvveee...
You frequently hear the market is in a "technical
reaction", which means that after a major move in
either direction the market has a tendency to
retrace up to 50% of that move.
The millionaires would look for another chance to
buy when the price drops by 50%.
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111777 ---
UUUssseee ttthhheee hhhaaalllfff wwwaaayyy rrruuullleee wwwhhheeennn
pppiiiccckkkiiinnnggg bbbuuuyyy---ssseeellllll ssspppoootttsss...
This means finding out over what range a market
has been trading, then buying in the lower half of
that range or selling in the upper half.
This rule is particularly useful in a trading market
or in a situation where the market is trading within
a chart channel.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 12
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddeeerrrsss--- VVVooollluuummmeee IIIIII
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111888 ---
WWWaaatttccchhh ttthhheee mmmaaagggnnniiitttuuudddeee ooofff mmmaaarrrkkkeeettt ccchhhaaannngggeee...
When a market moves lower, but by a smaller
amount each day, it may be a signal for an uptrend.
When the market moves up each day, but in
smaller amounts, it's an early signal that a
downtrend may be just around the corner.
RRRUUULLLEEE ###111999 ---
CCCooonnngggeeessstttiiiooonnn aaarrreeeaaasss cccaaannn mmmeeeaaannn sssuuuppppppooorrrttt
ooorrr rrreeesssiiissstttaaannnccceee...
These areas act as barriers that slow down price
action. When you hear a market commentator say
there is technical support at a certain price level,
chances are good that he is looking at a line chart
which shows an old congestion area where trading
took place over a narrow range for several weeks.
Major price moves may develop when the market
breaks out of a trading area. Usually the longer the
market has been chopping around in the trading
area, the further the price moves once it breaks
out.
© www.Netfutures.com in association with www.The-Way-To-Trade.com 13
SSSeeecccrrreeetttsss ooofff MMMiiilllllliiiooonnnaaaiiirrreee TTTrrraaadddee