Step by Step Trading
By Dr. Alexander Elder
Copyright 2015 by Dr. Alexander Elder
All charts by StockCharts.com – used with permission.
ISBN: 978-0-9744942-5-8
Published by elder.com
LEGAL: No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or
transmitted in any form or by any means without the prior written permission of the copyright
owner.
DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY: while the author has used his best efforts in preparing this
book, he makes no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of
the contents. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be appropriate for your
situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. The author shall not be
responsible for any loss.
Books by Dr. Alexander Elder
In chronological order:
Trading for a Living
Study Guide for Trading for a Living
Rubles to Dollars
Come into My Trading Room
Study Guide for Come into My Trading Room
Straying from the Flock: Travels in New Zealand
Entries & Exits: Visits to 16 Trading Rooms
Study Guide for Entries & Exits
The New Sell & Sell Short (with Study Guide)
To Trade or Not to Trade: A Beginner’s Guide (e-book)
Two Roads Diverged: Trading Divergences (e-book)
The New High – New Low Index (e-book), with Kerry Lovvorn
Additive Manufacturing (e-book)
The Trading Puzzle – Book One (e-book), with Kerry Lovvorn
The New Trading for a Living
Study Guide for The New Trading for a Living
Table of Contents
Free updates and the honor code
Starting Out on Your Journey
Markets are tough
Two steps that will put you ahead of the crowd
How to control risk
Good records make good traders
Technical Analysis
StockCharts Basics
Let’s create a chart (actually, two charts)
Dressing a naked chart: a pair of moving averages
Profits from manic-depression (using envelopes)
The power of bulls and bears (MACD indicator)
May the force be with you (Force index)
Less is more (other indicators)
Trading Systems
The trades to avoid (the Impulse system)
Every trade deserves a name (the system you trade)
Buying pullbacks in an uptrend
Catching reversals (false breakout with a divergence)
An end-of-day trend-following system (by Kerry Lovvorn)
Trading with fundamentals and technicals (by Philip Wu)
Trade Management
The sweet spot (what timeframe will you trade?)
Stops, targets, and risk control
Your visual diary
The road ahead
Sources
Acknowledgments
About the author
Free updates and the honor code
After we accumulate feedback for this e-book, we plan to issue an updated edition and send it at
no charge to all purchasers. If you bought this book from Elder.com, you’ll automatically
receive an update. If you bought it elsewhere, please let us know, and we’ll add your email to
our list for future updates. We have a strict privacy policy and will never release your
information to anyone.
Please do not forward this book to your friends (i.e. commit piracy). Instead, email your friends
this link to make sure they receive the latest update.
Please do not copy this book.
I put several hundred hours of work into writing. Please reciprocate my trust in you by sending
your friends the above link rather than pirating the book.
And now, let’s embark on our journey.
Dr. Alexander Elder
Vermont, March 2015
Return to the top
Starting Out on Your Journey
Congratulations on becoming a StockCharts.com member. You have taken an important step
towards becoming a successful trader. This book will guide you through the next several steps.
My goal in writing it was to help you avoid common pitfalls and master the key principles that
will serve you for the rest of your trading life.
Most beginners jump into trading unprepared. They remind me of new skiers who hop into a
gondola and ride to the top of a mountain without a clue how to ski down its slopes. This book
will teach you the essentials of modern computerized trading. Even if you already have some
experience, you’ll find much that is useful and perhaps even surprising in this book.
To help you focus on the process of becoming a successful stock trader, I’ve included the key
lessons from my years of experience. This book, Step by Step Trading, will walk you through
the essentials of this fantastically interesting but demanding craft and teach you its main do’s and
don’ts. I believe that “less is more” in trading. Most traders needlessly complicate their work
and hurt their results instead of improving them.
I suggest reading this brief book at least twice. Begin by loading it onto your favorite tablet or
printing it out and read it once the old-fashioned way, relaxing in your favorite chair. Then go
back and re-read it while sitting in front of your StockCharts screen, and implement its lessons.
This will ensure that you absorb all of the essential information in this book.
We’ll begin by looking at the risks of trading and then set the essential money management
rules. We’ll continue our journey of discovery by going step-by-step through the exact chart
settings that I use – and of course explain how and why I use them. There is no need to waste
time re-inventing the wheel if you can benefit directly from my years of experience.
After that, I’ll show you several examples of trading systems and trade management techniques.
I’ll even give you a copy of the spreadsheet that I use to track my own trades. Take your time
working with this book to become a more knowledgeable and more disciplined trader.
Throughout this book you’ll find boxes like this one - they contain precise instructions on how to
duplicate my settings on your computer. If you are on the first reading of this book, you can skip
these and focus on the actual text. Later, when you are in front of your computer, follow these
instructions – step-by-step – to get your StockCharts account configured just like mine.
Return to the top
Markets are tough
Trading attracts us with its promise of money and freedom, challenge and excitement. Beginners
quickly discover how hard it is to take profits out of the market. Remember, the only easy thing
about trading is losing money!
The rewards of trading as well as its dangers are both are very real and you need to weigh them
before you jump in with both feet. If you decide to trade, you have a fascinating road ahead of
you. If you decide that trading is not for you, there is no shame in “Let me stand aside from the
markets for now.”
Before we analyze charts and look for stocks to buy or sell, let’s explore several basic questions:
what markets to trade, how to manage risk and why keep a trading journal.
Where will your trading profits come from? The money you hope to take out of the markets
currently resides in other people’s accounts. And all those men, women and corporations have
absolutely no desire to give money to you. As a matter of fact, right now, while you’re reading
this book, they’re crafting their trading plans, designed to take your money.
While you’re planning to pick their pockets, they’re working hard on trying to pick yours.
They’re probably more experienced in this game than a beginning trader. But your forthcoming
battle with them isn’t even your biggest problem.
Your greatest enemy – a bigger obstacle than any competitor, a grasping broker, or unstable
internet – is the person you see every morning in the mirror.
All beginners – and quite a few experienced traders who should know better – sabotage
themselves in ways that are sometimes sad, at other times hilarious, but almost always avoidable.
And they do it not once or twice, but over and over again, until their account is depleted or they
lose confidence and slink away from the markets.
The lack of knowledge, or to put it bluntly, ignorance, isn’t the biggest cause of trader mortality.
The two major causes of losing are the inability to control risk and to manage yourself. If you
learn to manage yourself in the markets and to control risks, you’ll ensure that you have enough
time to survive, clear up any lack of knowledge, and start taking profits from the markets.
Most people hate to face their own role in losing. This is why, if you want to become a
successful trader, you need to learn to manage yourself: write trading plans, calculate risks vs.
rewards, and complete your trading journal after each trade. Then you’ll rise above the masses
and start taking money from the markets.
The rules for managing risk that I’ll show you may feel annoying for beginners with tiny
accounts, because proper risk control limits trade size. Our greed pushes against risk
management. All traders have this powerful emotion – some of us have a lot and others an even
bigger lot.
Another hugely powerful emotion is fear, and it follows on the heels of greed. You get greedy,
put on an oversize trade, the market slaps you – and now fear kicks in. You become afraid to put
on a perfectly reasonable trade – and afterwards kick yourself for having missed an opportunity.
Poor risk management makes people lose courage as well as money.
This is why I want to begin this book on trading tools and systems with brief chapters on risk
control and self-management.
Return to the top
Two steps that will put you ahead of the crowd
The two key skills that separate winners from losers are risk control and self-control.
Managing risk in your account is pretty straightforward once you know the formulae, which
you’re about to see. A professional trader may allocate up to a third of his research time to
calculating money management angles, as he compares risks and rewards for different stocks.
He discards many stocks that look attractive but whose risk parameters don’t suit him.
How much time does an average beginner spend calculating and managing risk? Most likely
zero, zip, nada. Right before placing a trade he may briefly scratch his head or some other part
of his anatomy and decide to double his usual size because he made money in the previous trade
or skip this trade because he lost money in his previous trade. Both choices are equally wrong.
If you let your latest trade determine what size to trade next time, it means giving up control of
trade management. If you follow the formulae in this book for controlling risks, you’ll
accomplish a goal in which most beginners fail.
The second essential skill – self-control – is harder to quantify. Fortunately there is a clear and
concrete tool for implementing and measuring self-control: keeping good quality trading records.
After Entries & Exits, my book of interviews with traders, was published, people kept asking
what those traders had in common. The 16 traders in the book – men and women, long-term and
short-term traders, stocks, futures and options traders, American and foreign traders – what did
they have in common?
They all kept excellent records.
I say to my students: “Show me a trader with good records, and I’ll show you a good trader.
Show me a trader with poor or nonexistent records, and I’ll show you an average trader. And
that’s a very poor sight because an average trader loses money. The majority must lose in order
for a small, informed, and disciplined minority to make profits. We’ll pay attention to record-
keeping as well as risk management in this book.
Return to the top
How to control risk
An intelligent scuba diver always keeps an eye on his air tank’s pressure gauge to make sure he
has enough to return to the surface, with a safety margin. The money in your trading account is
your air supply. Watch it, be economical in its use, and have a reserve.
All beginners, no matter how bright, make mistakes and take losses. Be sure to keep your losses
small, don’t let them threaten your survival.
The most important rule of risk control is THE TWO PERCENT RULE: never risk more than
2% of your account equity on any given trade.
Begin by writing down three numbers for every trade: your entry, target and stop. Without them
a trade turns into a gamble – and you’re not here to gamble, are you?
Later, in the chapters on technical analysis, we’ll discuss ho