Swing Trading, pg. 1
Swing Trading Using Candlestick charting with Pivot Point Analysis
Written by John L. Person
Introduction:
This booklet was written with the intention of enlightening your knowledge and awareness of different techniques of
technical analysis. As a professional trader and public speaker I strive to help educate my community of investors
and clients. As an example of my commitment to that goal I want to provide this manual to you. I believe that
continued education can help increase knowledge and through improved knowledge comes confidence.
This booklet is not designed to cover every detail of the material discussed but to help you to explore a new avenue
or refresh your memory of material you may have learned previously.
About the Author:
John Person is a 22-year veteran of the Futures and Options Trading industry. Since his start on the floor of the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange, he has worked his way throughout the industry as a Broker, Trader, Branch
Manager for one of Chicago's largest discount / full service firms under the tutelage of a former Chairman of the
Chicago Board of Trade. Early in his career, John worked as an apprentice for George C. Lane – Credited with the
creation of the oscillating system known as Stochastics. In addition, John studied Candlestick Charting techniques
by Dan Gramza, the man who helped Steve Nison from his first book. John has applied his knowledge throughout
the years by appearing as a regular contributor on several financial television programs and as a keynote speaker
at some of the countries top Investment Expositions. In addition, John is the editor of "The Bottom-Line Newsletter",
a weekly commodity publication that incorporates fundamental developments as well as technical analysis including
his own proprietary trading system-using support and resistance levels on a daily, weekly and monthly basis. This
helps his clients identify potential buy or sell signals on a short, intermediate or a long-term basis.
CHAPTER 1
Pivot Point Analysis is a famous technique that is used as a price forecasting method for day traders and
professional traders as well. It is very popular among professionals.
You should have a better understanding of this method after reading and studying this booklet and the benefits to
you may help improve your timing of entry and exit points of the market.
There are numerous advisory services, brokerage firms and independent traders that use one form of it or another.
Support /Resistance, price range forecasting pin pointing tops and bottoms and target trading are some of the
terms that are used to refer to it as well. For most traders on the floor of the exchanges it is considered common
knowledge or old school of teaching.
Most novice individual investors and even brokers are not familiar with this formula. I believe that most
inexperienced investors have a hard time with incorporating this technique in their trading “tool box” due to the time
it takes to calculate the numbers. But make no mistake the professionals’ look at it and so should you.
First here is the mathematical formula where P= Pivot point; C= Close: H= High: and L= Low.
The Pivot point number is the high, low, close added up and then divided by three. P=(H+L+C)/3= pivot point
Now for the first resistance level take the pivot point number times two and then subtract the low. (Px2)-L=
Resistance 1
For the second resistance, take the pivot point number add the high and then subtract the low. P+H-L= Resistance
2
Copyright © 2002 by John L. Person III, CTA
PDF created with FinePrint pdfFactory Pro trial version http://www.fineprint.com
Swing Trading, pg. 2
For the first support take the pivot point number times two and then subtract the high. (Px2)-H = Support 1
For the second support, take the pivot point number subtract the high and then add the low. P-H+L= Support 2
All right, now that we have that established you can see it is a detailed formula. So let’s try to simplify it. Consider
the Pivot Point as the average of the previous sessions trading range combined with the closing price. The
numbers of support and resistance that are calculated indicate the potential ranges for the next time frame based
on the past weight of the markets strength or weakness derived from the calculations of the high, low and distance
from the close of those points. Pivot Point analysis is also used for identifying breakout points from the support and
resistance numbers.
The previous sessions trading range could be based and calculated for an hour, a day, a week or a month. Most
trading software includes these numbers on a daily basis so that you do not have the tedious chore of doing it the
old fashion way, by hand using a calculator. The really old fashion way doesn’t use a calculator. Don’t make your
job harder try the easy way.
I wrote a computer program so that I can calculate the numbers on a daily, weekly and monthly time period
relatively quick and for most markets. These calculations are available to clients by Fax, email or by viewing on line.
Clients and visitors have access to this research by going to my website www.nationalfutures.com .
I personally do the daily numbers at the end of the day in order to help me identify the next day’s potential range or
support and resistance. It gives me a head start on my research so I am prepared for the next day’s work. It helps
me to plan my trades. Similarly the weekly numbers are done at the end of every week and the same goes for the
monthly numbers.
Since most technical analysis is derived from mathematical calculations the common denominators that are used
are the high, low, close and the open. This is what is used for plotting a bar chart. More notarized techniques like
Moving averages, Relative Strength Index, Stochastics, and Fibonacci numbers are all calculated using
mathematics based on those points of interest. It is also what is published in the Newspapers. It is there for a
reason.
The concept is this, as technical analysts we are trying to use past price behavior to help us indicate future price
direction. l I am not trying to predict the future I just want an Idea of where prices can go in a given time period
based on where they have been. After all isn’t that similar to the concept of drawing trend lines?
CHAPTER 2
We have all heard the slogan about how to be successful in investing in Real Estate, which is LOCATION,
LOCATION, and LOCATION. (Check that out another symbolic reference that involves the Fibonacci number
three).
In this business it is important to remember what I call the rule of MULTIPLE VERIFICATION. I more than likely
picked this belief by reading a book back in 1981 0r 1982 by Arthur Sklarew. He wrote in his book titled Techniques
of a Professional Commodity Chart Analyst, about The Rule of Multiple Techniques (page 3)
He states…Technicians know very well that the price chart analysis is not an exact science. No single chart
technique yet discovered is infallible. Despite this lack of perfection, price chart analysis can very often give reliable
forecasts of trend direction… …Confirmation is therefore an essential component of every valid chart signal.
In addition to comparing price charts of different contract months and time scales, it has been my experience that
the accuracy of any technical price forecast can be improved greatly by the application of a principle that I call the
“Rule of Multiple Techniques.”
The Rule of Multiple Techniques requires that the chart technician not rely solely on one single technical signal or
indicator, but look for conformation from other technical indicators. The more technical indicators that confirm each
other, the better the chance of an accurate forecast.
Copyright © 2002 by John L. Person III, CTA
PDF created with FinePrint pdfFactory Pro trial version http://www.fineprint.com
Swing Trading, pg. 3
The logic behind this rule is that if individual time proven techniques tend to be right most of the time, a combination
of several such techniques that confirm each other will tend to be right even more frequently.
I do not believe Mr. Sklarew talked about the Pivot Point analysis as a means of technical analysis nor was he
aware at the time he wrote that book, of the art of candlestick charting. I believe that had he, it would have more
than likely have been in his book.
Verify, verify and verify. What it means to me is this, before deciding to invest or make a trade, if I understand the
underlying fundamentals, I would want to look at a chart to confirm the trend and then I would look at varying
technical indicators to help confirm my beliefs.
By incorporating different techniques like pivot point analysis, the figures help me speed up my analytical process.
With these numbers I can take my charts and draw lines with the support and resistance numbers on them to see if
they help clear the “visual” picture. This is one technique that traders should try.
The next example demonstrates how using pivot point analysis can work on most markets and for different time
frames. I want to illustrate a price point using the Monthly Pivot Point support number for sugar. As the chart below
in figure 2.1 shows, the target support number was 6.09. Let’s do the math and we will see.
The previous months range (September) for the March 2002 Sugar futures was (High) 7.80 (Low) 6.40 (Close)
6.63. Now work the formula and you should show 6.09 as the 1st support number for the month of October.
Break Away GAP
Mid Point GAP
Exhaustion GAP
(figure 2.1)
Let’s examine what happened, the exact low was made eight business days into the month of October and it was
6.11! Two ticks from the projected Pivot Point support number of 6.09. In fact, in this illustration there were two
days that the low was made at 6.11, which formed a double bottom.
In addition, there was another traditional chart reading technique that may have given you a clue that a bottom was
near and that was the three-gap method. The Break Away Gap, the Mid Point Gap and the Exhaustion Gap.
This chart above, in my opinion, demonstrates a text book example of the multiple verification rule. There were
three different techniques that alerted one to a buying opportunity. One of the earlier indicators was the Monthly
Pivot Point method, which would have alerted you nearly a week and a half in advance of a potential low. The other
two techniques, the gap method and the double bottom chart formation helped confirm that target low.
Copyright © 2002 by John L. Person III, CTA
PDF created with FinePrint pdfFactory Pro trial version http://www.fineprint.com
Swing Trading, pg. 4
Keep in mind this is not a typical situation as analyzing markets is generally not this easy. Identifying chart patterns
is an art and not an exact science. The important key point to remember here is when you do have confirmation of
a support target from using the Pivot Point Calculation with traditional chart reading techniques it will enable one to
map out a trading plan using proper risk factors. With a trading plan all mapped out that may help increase your
confidence and skills as a trader.
CHAPTER 3
Japanese Candlesticks is the next style of Charting. This has been receiving more and more notoriety in the last
decade here in the United States since a gentleman by the name of Steve Nisson published one of his first books
on the subject back in 1991.
Candlestick Charting originates back to Japan from centuries ago. It is a method of looking at data differently than
has been developed in western cultures. The advantage of using candlestick charting in place of Bar charts is that
you have the ability to use same techniques and analysis that bar charts offer plus the diversity and unique signals
that candlesticks generate. This can empower you to gain an edge on your competition, the other guy.
In addition, since this is a more sophisticated style and certainly a more specialized format of charting, it has gained
in popularity