The Holy Grail Trading System
James Windsor
2
All Rights Reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced in any form or by any
means, including scanning, photocopying, or otherwise without prior written permission of the
copyright holder. Copyright James Windsor © 2013
3
Table of Contents
Introduction
It Begins
The Birth of 'Grail'
The Diary
The Spread Betting Liars!
Month 1: October 2005
Month 2: November 2005
Month 3: December 2005
Month 4: January 2006
Month 5: February 2006
Month 6: March 2006
Month 7: April 2006
Month 8: May 2006
Month 9: June 2006
Month 10: July 2006
Month 11: August 2006
Month 12: September 2006
Month 13: October 2006
Month 14: November 2006
Month 15: December 2006
Month 16: January 2007
Month 17: February 2007
The Last Post
Final Notes
Appendix 1: The Grail System
Appendix 2 - Trading Sheets
October 2005
November 2005
December 2005
January 2006
February 2006
March 2006
April 2006
May 2006
June 2006
July 2006
August 2006
September 2006
4
October 2006
November 2006
December 2006
January 2007
Resources
5
Introduction
There are many great stories in the history of trading that have significance.
George Soros making a billion dollars betting against the Bank of England in 1992 which
caused the UK to pull out of the Exchange Rate Mechanism.
The rise and fall of Long Term Capital Management (LTCM), what was thought to be the best
trading house on the planet.
The fall of Lehman Brothers during 2008 where what was once the 4th largest investment bank
in the US.
JP Morgan also faced a £4billion loss in 2012 but managed to stay alive.
There are dozens more true stories like this with many being turned into major motion pictures.
Scholars and statisticians have studied these cases to find out what went wrong and what
lessons can be learned.
This book isn't about a story with that magnitude. It covers one true story that you most likely
have not heard of. That's because it didn't involve public money or have a major impact on the
world.
Pension funds did not fall and the federal bank never had to intervene. Alan Greenspan never
knew about this tale.
That’s because it's the story of ordinary people that wanted to earn money by trading the
financial markets and had a fairly large target. If you are an ordinary retail trader then this
book is one which you really should read because you will identify with it personally.
It's the story behind a team, an experiment and a trading system called 'Grail'.
Many ordinary traders just like you watched this story unfold in 2005 - 2007. It gave them
hope that trading was a way for them to escape the drudgery that engulfs most people in our
capitalist society; a way to beat the system.
Retail traders try system after system, one chart pattern after another, the latest indicator and
auto trading robot all in the hope of finding the one that makes them millionaires. This was one
that almost made it into the history books.
It fulfilled all the dreams of those traders. It was 100% mechanical, was 100% automatic
through computer trading and it worked over a long time period.
The original blog on which this story is based is still online, time stamped for all to see but
6
what you won’t see is the story behind the unfolding posts.
That story along with each post from that blog is revealed in this book for all to see. Month by
month; post by post and trade by trade. You will be reading the views of the main player in
this game looking back on what happened and commenting on what went wrong.
You will also discover the exact system that was used and how deceptively simple it was.
You have the opportunity to try the system for yourself and possibly find a way forward with
it.
The story is a double edged sword. The system did make money and shedloads of it but was
only saved by withdrawing from it in the nick of time.
This book actually reveals the details that we have kept a very closely guarded secret for 10
years. You will find out at the end of the book exactly what the system is, its parameters and
the changes we made. Don't skip to that section though until you have read it all. You won't
see the true power of simplicity until you understand the whole story.
I hope that you enjoy the book, but most of all hope that you will learn some lessons. If you
manage to make the system work the way that we made it work, then all the best to you but
please do let me know.
Let’s turn the clock back and begin…
7
It Begins
"We'll make how much!!?"
I can remember those words from one of the team that was working on this project. As we
pulled together the final results from our system testing it was music to all of our ears and
exactly what we wanted to hear.
We were a team of wannabe millionaire traders that were searching for the 'Holy Grail'; a
trading system the delivered consistent results month in, month out over a long period.
It all started in 2003 inside an Internet chat room on a website called moneytec.com. Part of
the website was a live chat room where inexperienced day traders exchanged ideas and trades
as they went through their daily quest for riches.
We were all inexperienced traders at the time, trying to find a way forward in this jungle that
is the foreign exchange currency market. We all wanted the easy money, earning thousands a
month so we could all retire to the sun. It's the dream of most people that enter this arena,
attracted by flashy websites extolling countless opportunities for making money and tales of
multi-millionaire traders.
The Internet is awash with pictures of someone lazing in a deckchair on the beach with the sea
just a few feet away shimmering in the sun. The person in the deckchair has a laptop on a
small table to their right and a straw hat on their head. A cool drink catches the sunlight and
makes the lens flare on the photograph.
The reality of choosing to trade the markets is something quite different. It consists of someone
hunched over a desk staring at several screens till their eyes hurt and the pungent odour of
curry farts lying in the air from yesterday’s takeaway. Welcome to the real world of a retail
trader.
Please allow me to introduce you to the team in our story. The names of all participants have
been changed to protect the identity and privacy of the people involved.
Firstly there was me. I was known as 'Soultrader' on the forums and chat rooms and was an
Internet entrepreneur. At the time I ran an Internet business utilizing eBay, QXL Auctions and
several websites through which I'd peddle software, games and e-books. In some circles I was
a trading guru, in others I would later be seen as a charlatan having sold a few trading systems
to wannabe traders; once a saleman always a salesman. Truth is that some found it hard to
follow water down a plughole let alone simple trading instructions.
I first entered the world of trading when a guy that had written a book on it bought a product
from me. I had also seen a recent BBC TV programme showing this bunch of happy people on
8
a train sipping champagne. The programme covered how they were making money by 'Spread
Betting' on the financial markets. Whilst on a short train journey one of the people on the train
had made over £1000 from point A to point B all in the space of around an hour.
I started selling the ebook I had read for the author as I was pretty good at marketing things and
of course I read it. Having finished the book I don't think any self respecting entrepreneur could
have done so without deciding to 'have a dabble' and so I did.
It was a decision that would change my life.
I began by trading the Dow Jones index and the occasional FTSE 100 trade and it's whilst
doing that I met the second member of our future team.
Kev was based in New York and was a trading dynamo. Born to affluent Jewish parents he
had his eyes set on Wall Street as a career. His parents were both professionals in law and
very successful too. Kev had a lot to measure up to.
Kev entered the markets in traditional American style, with a whoop whoop and lots of noise.
Aged only 22 when we first encountered each other he was the perfect age and had the right
level of aggression and testosterone to either do well in the game; or to crash and burn
quickly. Youth is a double edged sword in this world where fortunes are made on the toss of a
coin.
Eventually we both moved into the currency markets. At this time in its history the 'Forex'
(FOReign EXchange) market had beautiful trends that went on for weeks at a time. It was
attractive to trend traders like us and eventually we made a complete move into this new arena.
Most of the people in the chat room were Forex traders. Some of them already had strong
followings. 'Bunnygirl' was a forty something welsh lady that just loved to share her 'Bunny
Cross' strategy, a simple moving average crossover with a twist. Over time we would become
both friends and occasionally adversaries. In those days I was very arrogant and was lacking
the real skill that a trader needed; that being humility in the face of the markets.
Bunnygirl did join our group for a while but she was happy to trade in her own way, doing a
bit here and a bit there so the connection gradually weakened over time. Thinking back it must
have been an uncomfortable place for her to be when there were so many strong personalities
together wanting to make millions.
Angel was a trader living in Australia. Based in Adelade this true lady was a professional in
the health field and her reasons for trading were to prop up her future pension in addition to
her dream of living in Nice in the South of France. Angel was to become a pivotal contributor
in the future when we began testing and tweaking our trading system.
9
Martin was based in the UK in Leeds. Martin is a great guy and remains my main trading
partner today. It was his initial system that our new system was to be based on.
Martin was extremely analytical. Previous to entering the markets he had made over two
million in the casinos by studying roulette and working out a system to beat it. Add some
electronic wizardry and he could walk into any casino anywhere in the world and make money
on the spin of a wheel.
Martin's skill was number crunching and chart study. If you needed a system back testing he
would go through a whole year of one minute charts and come up with all the figures you
needed. Drawdown, win / loss ratio, percentage gains, everything. Truth be known, the guy is
a genius but he'd blush if you said that and reply with "I just look at the numbers"
He was also a master at chess, having played with some of the best players in the world in his
younger days.
The final major contributor was a guy called Tony. He came from London and had a
background in computer programming. He was a programming genius. In his early days he
was the person that designed and made the old 'squawk boxes' in the trading rooms of London.
(Before the Internet speed increases of the new millenium squawk boxes were the primary
method of communication in the trading houses of the world).
Tony loved programming. At one point he had what he called an automatic arbitrage scraper,
a program that compared the prices of two brokers and when there was a mismatch he would
trade the difference. He was banned from Oanda and several other brokers for having the
ability to execute trades in milliseconds. During news trades his trades would be in just split
seconds before the broker could react, and he could exit exactly at the top of a move before the
price turned.
One such robot he created just aimed to take 1-2 pips per trade when an arbitrage opportunity
presented itself. At one point in a single week he took a $500 account to $56,000. The broker
banned him and confiscated the account before he could get any money out. Tony was the
person behind the automation of our trading methods.
There were others involved including Whispy, Fluty and a couple of others that were along for
the ride. The core of the team was me, Martin, Angel and