ffirs.qxd 12/27/04 3:18AM Pagei
The
Options
Course
ffirs.qxd 12/27/04 3:18AM Pageii
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publishing
company in the United States. With offices in North America, Europe, Aus-
tralia, and Asia, Wiley is globally committed to developing and marketing
print and electronic products and services for our customers’ professional
and personal knowledge and understanding.
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have survived
the market’s ever changing temperament and have prospered—some by
reinventing systems, others by getting back to basics. Whether a novice
trader, professional, or somewhere in-between, these books will provide
the advice and strategies needed to prosper today and well into the future.
For a list of available titles, visit our web site at www.WileyFinance.com.
ffirs.qxd12/27/043:19AMPageiii
The
Options
Course
High Profit&LowStress
Trading Methods
Second Edition
GEORGE A. FONTANILLS
John Wiley &Sons, Inc.
ffirs.qxd 12/27/04 3:19AM Pageiv
Copyright © 2005 by George A. Fontanills and Richard Cawood. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted
in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or
otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright
Act, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through
payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222
Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, 978-750-8400, fax 978-646-8600, or on the web at
www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the
Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, 201-
748-6011, fax 201-748-6008.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their
best efforts in preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect
to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any
implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may
be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and
strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with
a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any
loss of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special,
incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services, or technical support, please
contact our Customer Care Department within the United States at 800-762-2974, outside
the United States at 317-572-3993 or fax 317-572-4002.
Wiley also publishes its books in a variety of electronic formats. Some content that appears
in print may not be available in electronic books.
For more information about Wiley products, visit our web site at www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Fontanills, George.
The options course : high profit & low stress trading methods / George A.
Fontanills.—2nd ed.
p. cm.
Includes index.
ISBN 0-471-66851-6 (cloth)
1. Options (Finance) I. Title.
HG6024.A3F66 2005
332.64'53—dc22 2004028852
Printed in the United States of America.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
ffirs.qxd 12/27/04 3:19AM Pagev
To Charlene Fontanills—
the one true love of my life.
ffirs.qxd 12/27/04 3:19AM Pagevi
ftoc.qxd 12/27/04 3:19AM Pagevii
Contents
Preface ix
Acknowledgments xiii
About the Author xv
Introduction 1
CHAPTER 1 Options Trading: A Primer 5
CHAPTER 2 The Big Picture 16
CHAPTER 3 Option Basics 42
CHAPTER 4 Basic Trading Strategies 76
CHAPTER 5 Introducing Vertical Spreads 130
CHAPTER 6 Demystifying Delta 164
CHAPTER 7 The Other Greeks 175
CHAPTER 8 Straddles, Strangles, and Synthetics 187
CHAPTER 9 Advanced Delta Neutral Strategies 234
CHAPTER 10 Trading Techniques for
Range-Bound Markets 265
CHAPTER 11 Increasing Your Profits
with Adjustments 311
vii
ftoc.qxd 12/27/04 3:19AM Pageviii
viii CONTENTS
CHAPTER 12 Choosing the Right Broker 330
CHAPTER 13 Processing Your Trade 347
CHAPTER 14 Margin and Risk 371
CHAPTER 15 A Short Course in
Economic Analyses 382
CHAPTER 16 Mastering the Market 403
CHAPTER 17 How to Spot Explosive Opportunities 415
CHAPTER 18 Tools of the Trade 453
CHAPTER 19 Final Summary 466
APPENDIX A Trading Resources 485
APPENDIX B Important Charts and Tables 503
APPENDIX C Strategy Reviews 511
APPENDIX D Success Guides 527
Glossary 533
Index 557
fpref.qxd 12/27/04 3:20AM Pageix
Preface
An investment in knowledge always pays the best
interest.
—Benjamin Franklin
M
ost new investors and traders, whether they are beginners or pro-
fessionals, usually lose money for two reasons. First, they do not
have a grasp of how the markets really work. Second, they are un-
der too much stress when they trade because they fear losing money.
Many times, traders liquidate good trades too quickly or have no idea
when to take profits. But learning to trade successfully is not an impossi-
ble task. This book is designed to build your knowledge base of the mar-
kets to a professional level and to provide you with strategies that make
money in the marketplace. My trading program is the result of many years
of trading experience, as well as many years of research and development,
all in the pursuit of developing the optimal methodologies to trade the
stock, options, and futures markets.
Students often ask me how I got started as a full-time investor. Per-
haps like you, I was looking for an opportunity that would allow me to
achieve my financial dreams after a long road of despair. After attending
high school in Miami, I felt a college career was necessary to become suc-
cessful. Although I questioned what success really meant to me and
whether college would bring me that success, I settled on the University of
Florida in Gainesville for the wrong reasons. It was close to home and all
my friends were going there.
One day, after just a few semesters, I woke up having difficulty breath-
ing. I went to the university clinic and was told I had a mild case of pneu-
monia. After a week of useless medications, my breathing troubles
increased. Finally X-rays were taken, and at the age of 18, I was diagnosed
with Hodgkin’s disease, a form of cancer. There is no news that can be
more devastating to a young person and his family.
Perhaps the hardest thing I had to face was the loss of my physical
prowess. Until that time, I was in exceptional shape, working out every day
and participating in lots of sports. Over the next year, I was hospitalized
ix
fpref.qxd 12/27/04 3:20AM Pagex
x PREFACE
and had to undergo chemotherapy treatments and radiation therapy.
Throughout this dark time, I continued my studies at a community college.
At this point, I realized that life was too short to waste time, and that I
needed to work as hard as I could to achieve everything I wanted to do. As
my resolve to succeed took flight, I coined the phrase, “Out of adversity
comes inspiration.”
I slowly recovered and went on to attend New York University, gradu-
ating with honors with a bachelor’s degree in accounting. I subsequently
earned my CPA license and joined a large accounting firm. However, after
spending several years in public accounting, I once again felt disillu-
sioned. I needed something more. I applied and, to my surprise, was ac-
cepted at Harvard Business School. After two grueling years (but
something I would do again without hesitation), I graduated.
Here I was, a bright and energetic young man with an MBA from the
finest business school in the world with countless job offers others would
never dream of turning down. But somehow I just couldn’t get excited
about any of the positions, no matter what they paid me. I had already
traveled down that road and knew that it led to a dead end. Instead, I
decided to go into business for myself.
Driven by my need for a more rewarding career, I started my first busi-
ness. It failed. Strike one. Undaunted, I started a second business, which
never even got off the ground. Strike two. On my third attempt—an at-
tempt to strike gold in the real estate business—I realized that I could ac-
tually be good at something. Working with some wealthy individuals in
Massachusetts, I was just able to keep my head above water. I would find
great real estate deals and they would put up the money to buy them.
Subsequently, I would get a small piece of each deal.
Unfortunately, I forgot one thing: I needed to eat and pay the rent
without the benefit of a consistent salary. Finally, the day came when my
landlord (one of my partners) came to collect my rent and I had no
money to pay it. I hedged as best I could and asked him to give me a lit-
tle more time. He turned me down, adding that he was going to throw
me out regardless of how much money I made him in the past. I was
shocked. At first I thought he was kidding around. But with a stern look
on his face, he proved me wrong, stating unequivocally, “One day you
will thank me for teaching you this lesson.” At the time, I cockily replied
that I’d be much happier with a wheelbarrow full of money. In hindsight,
I realize that he was probably referring to my favorite personal proverb
about finding inspiration in adversity. However, he is still waiting for me
to thank him.
Crushed and downhearted, I went to my parents to borrow money to
eat and live. Being a Harvard MBA and having to borrow money from your
parents is very demoralizing. Having to listen to “Why don’t you get a real
fpref.qxd 12/27/04 3:20AM Pagexi
Preface xi
job?” not only from them but from others made me decide to give corpo-
rate life another shot.
Soon after, I found a consulting job that lasted a whole 30 days. It was
supposed to be a permanent job. But as I was being fired, I was told I had
the wrong attitude. In fact, they said much more than that, but most of it
could never be printed. Unfortunately, they were right. I did have the
wrong attitude. I just didn’t want to work for anyone but myself. I re-
turned to real estate and started looking for new projects, but this time I
was determined to control them. In this roundabout way, I was first intro-
duced to the concept of an option. A real estate option allowed me to con-
trol a piece of property with very little cash for a specific period of time.
As I later learned, stock and futures options are very similar.
My first deal was exciting. I found a great apartment complex going
into foreclosure and convinced the owner I could buy the property. In
fact, I had no cash at all. Even worse, my credit was destroyed and my
shiny BMW had been repossessed. Since I was approximately $50,000 in
debt, I did what I had to do: I convinced an investor to put up the option
money and split the profits after the property was sold. I made a nice
$35,000 profit on that deal—finally, a success.
After a series of profitable deals, the bottom fell out of the real estate
market. There was no money available anywhere. Once again, I was left
with a big question mark as to what I should be doing with my life. Luck-
ily, serendipity intervened. One day, I received a small advertisement in
the mail for a book on futures trading. Although I had no clue as to what
futures trading was all about, I ordered the book. What struck me most
were tales about making large amounts of money in a short period of time
using very little cash. This sounded very similar to what I had been doing
with real estate.
Why had I never learned any of this when I attended Harvard Business
School? How could the great “boot camp of capitalism” neglect to teach
me about futures markets? My interest was now piqued. I picked up a few
more books. I began to watch the markets. I even p