T C B
he ompleTe ook
o S
of pTion preadS
C
and omBinaTionS
Strategies for Income Generation, Directional
Moves, and Risk Reduction
Scott Nations
Cover images: © iStock.com / Taylor Hinton; © iStock.com / Storman; © iStock.com / joel-t
Cover design: Wiley
Copyright © 2014 by Scott Nations. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by
any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted un-
der Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission
of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clear-
ance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-8600, or on the
Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions
Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011,
fax (201) 748-6008, or online at www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in pre-
paring this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of
the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a par-
ticular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materials.
The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with a
professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any
other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our
Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at
(317) 572-3993, or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material included
with standard print versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book
refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you purchased, you may download this
material at http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley products, visit www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Nations, Scott.
The complete book of option spreads and combinations : strategies for income generation, directional moves,
and risk reduction / Scott Nations.
pages cm. – (Wiley trading)
Includes index.
ISBN 978-1-118-80545-9 (paperback); ISBN 978-1-118-80639-5 (ebk); ISBN 978-1-118-80620-3 (ebk)
1. Options (Finance) 2. Options (Finance)–Mathematics. 3. Investment analysis. I. Title.
HG6024.A3N347 2014
332.64′53–dc23
2014016781
Printed in the United States of America.
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
For my mother, who always made the time to answer a question
from a curious kid.
Contents
Foreword vii
Preface ix
Chapter 1 not Just More or Less but Different 1 v
Chapter 2 Just a Little Math 15
Chapter 3 Vertical spreads 29
Chapter 4 Covered Calls 55
Chapter 5 Covered puts 75
Chapter 6 Calendar spreads 93
Chapter 7 straddles 109
Chapter 8 strangles 125
Chapter 9 Collars 139
Chapter 10 risk reversal 155
Chapter 11 Butterflies 169
Chapter 12 Condors and Iron Condors 191
Chapter 13 Conversion/reversal 209
vi
StnetnoC
Chapter 14 ratio spreads and Back spreads 217
Chapter 15 other spreads and Combinations 235
About the Website 247
About the Author 248
Index 249
Foreword
I n this book, Options Spreads and Combinations, Scott takes the subject of options and
option spreads and shows investors how they can be easy to understand through
interesting, real world examples. Just as he does every week on CNBC’s Options Ac-
tion and in his first book, Options Math for Traders, Scott takes what many have viewed vii
as intimidating concepts and breaks down the barrier of entry for the self-directed
investor. Scott has a wonderful ability to use his years of experience and vast knowl-
edge of markets and rather than use industry jargon or high-level mathematics, he
breaks things down to a level that is interesting and easy to grasp for all levels of
investor—from the novice to the seasoned. This ability to relate to and write for
people of all knowledge levels, without arrogance or condescension is impressive
when you review his track record which includes being the brains behind the “Na-
tions VolDex®” implied volatility index.
This book encourages you to dig deeper, through poignant examples and real-life
situations that can help your decision-making process when you face similar situa-
tions. Most importantly, as Scott has done this for a living and has the “battle scars”
to show for it, he helps you set realistic expectations. He is not here to give a fly-by-
night or get-rich-quick scheme. He is helping you become educated in the theory
and reality of options trading so you can put together a realistic game plan and give
yourself the opportunity for options trading success.
A prominent and important part of this book is to address some of the most common
mistakes that retail traders make. All too often, when folks are starting out in the world
of options trading, they only buy or sell single options in directional trades. This can be a
successful strategy for some people but over time it is probably not a strategy with which
viii
DroweroF
the average person can have long-term success. This book encourages you to consider
spreading your trades, which spreads out your risk and the cost of your trades. As you
read along, you will quickly grasp that this type of trading allows you to use less capital
and define your risk right up front on your trades. You will have the opportunity in this
book to learn about every type of spread trade that is realistic and imaginable.
Chapter 1 addresses the differences in risk and return and the fundamental differ-
ence in options payoffs, which sets the pace for the rest of this book and the difference
in thinking about options as compared to just buying or selling stock. As Scott empha-
sizes, the ability for one to manage risk and exposure to the market is much easier if
you understand these spreads. This concept of risk differentiates this book from others
and is one to keep in mind as you read. Scott gives insight in to how a professional looks
at trading. That is, the first thing he looks at is how much risk or how much exposure
do I have, then he looks at potential return. This concept is so important and helps to
mitigate one of the primary mistakes that many newer options traders have. By defining
risk right up front, which most spreads do, it keeps the investor away from a situation
where they are in over their head or have risked too much capital, while at the same
time setting out a worst-case scenario right up front. You can see this clearly illustrated
in Chapter 3 on vertical spreads, no matter if you are buying or selling the spread, you
should view the money you can lose and the potential return on the trade. This is not to
be minimized and should be heeded in every example. read this to better understand
risk and, more importantly, understand how to define the appropriate risk for you, and
it can help you on your road to success.
Scott also does a great job of addressing the size of your trades and keeping risk
appropriate. This helps to address another mistake that traders of all levels make;
that is, they trade more contracts on a trade than they are ready to. Spreads help to
mitigate this situation, but equally as important is the reminder to do what is right
for you and what you are ready for in any market situation. This is an important step
in achieving success in a way that does not have you up all night worrying.
As someone that talks to retail traders on a regular basis, I find it so refreshing to
see someone teaching in a sensible, risk-defined manner to help the average person
have a greater chance of success in the market. I commend Scott’s thoughtful work
delivered in fun and logical lessons in this book. I consider him one of the best op-
tions teachers. one of the great benefits of this book is that it is not going to be read
and put away; this book can serve as a reference guide for the rest of your trading
career. As you step up in knowledge or want to take different types of risk, you can
reread the chapters on different spreads as you change your strategies based on mar-
ket conditions. These lessons are timeless. I hope you enjoy this book as much as I did
as you get the chance to learn from a great teacher and a great friend.
—JJ Kinahan
Preface
T
he goal of option trading is to make money. The vital element of making money
over the long run is to define risk when you can and reduce the cost of your
trade when you should. An option spread (essentially buying one option and selling a
similar option) or an option combination (usually using two options in tandem such ix
as buying both a put and a call or using an option in tandem with something else such
as ownership of the underlying stock) is usually the best way to define risk and/or
reduce the cost of your trade. Not every option spread or combination limits your
risk but most do and they do it sensibly, without paying a huge penalty that destroys
the mathematical advantage your option strategy might generate. In fact, certain
option spreads generate even more mathematical advantage than outright option
positions can. The purpose of this book is to help you understand these strategies
and apply them intelligently because, again, the goal is to make money. We can and
should enjoy both learning about options and trading them effectively, but both are a
lot more fun when we’re making money.
No trader is right every time, but you should make money more often than you
lose money and your profitable trades should make more than your losing trades
lose. The easiest way to do all these things is to use option spreads and combinations
and to do so in a disciplined manner. That discipline includes taking your loss when
your option spread trade isn’t working. You will probably have lost a lot less money
than if you had traded the stock or an outright option (rather than an option spread
or combination) but using a lower-cost, lower-risk spread or combination doesn’t
mean we can ignore first principles and not take our loss when we should. A spread
or combination is also a great tool when doing the hardest thing to accomplish when
trading—adding to a winner well.
x
ecAferP
As we’ve mentioned, some spreads and combinations have a built-in advantage.
for example, we’ll discuss one built-in advantage when we discuss risk reversals.
covered calls are another combination with a different built-in advantage—over
time, the call option you sell will generate more in premium received than the op-
tion is ultimately worth. Some spreads and combinations have a built-in disadvan-
tage. collars are a great way to define risk if you own appreciated stock but you’re
swimming against the tide a bit. That’s okay as long as you don’t use collars con-
stantly and understand why that is.
The Complete Book of Option Spreads and Combinations isn’t intended for someone
who’s a complete newcomer to options. We discuss outright options, that is, op-
tions that aren’t part of a spread or combination, but outright options are rarely the
right strategy, particularly if you’re a speculative seller of options, so we’ll focus on
spreads and combinations and while they’re not necessarily complicated, if you’re
still stuck on the difference between a put option and a call