THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
1
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
Content
Introduction 4
Overview 6
History of Candlesticks 8
What is a Candlestick 11
Candlestick Patterns 14
The Engulfing Bar Candlestick 16
The Doji Candlestick Pattern 20
The Dragon Fly Doji Pattern 22
The Gravestone Doji Pattern 25
The Morning Star 28
The Evening Star Candlestick Pattern 31
The Hammer Candlestick Pattern 34
The Shooting Star Candlestick Pattern 37
The Harami Pattern 40
The Tweezers Tops and Bottoms 43
Candlestick Patterns Exercise 47
The Market Structure 51
How to Trade Trending Markets 54
Support and Resistance Levels 58
How to Draw Trendlines 61
The Ranging Market 63
Time Frames and Top Down Analysis 70
Trading Strategies and Tactics 79
The Pin Bar Candlestick Pattern Strategies 81
2
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
Trading the Pin Bar Candle With The Trend 88
Trading Tactics 92
Trading Pin Bars with Confluence 96
Pin Bar Trades Examples 100
Trading Pin Bars in Range Bounds Markets 103
The Engulfing Bar Candlestick Pattern 109
How to Trade the Engulfing Bar Price Action Signal 112
Trading the Engulfing Bar with Moving Averages 117
How to Trade the Engulfing Bar with Fibonacci Retracements 120
Trading the Engulfing Bar with Trendlines 122
Trading the Engulfing Bar in Sideways Markets 125
The Engulfing Pattern with Supply and Demand Zones 130
Money Management Trading Rules 133
The Inside Bar Candlestick Pattern 137
The Psychology Behind the Inside Bar Pattern Formation 140
How to Trade Inside Bars with Support and Resistance 143
Tips on Trading the Inside Bar Price Action Setup 146
Trading the False Breakout of The Inside Bar Pattern 148
Inside bar false breakouts trading examples 151
Trading Inside Bar False Breakout with Fibonacci Retracements 154
Trades Examples 158
Money Management Strategies 162
Conclusion 167
3
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
Introduction
The Candlestick trading bible is one of the most powerful trading
systems in history. It was invented by Homma Munehisa.The father of
candlestick chart patterns.
This trader is considered to be the most successful trader in history, he
was known as the God of markets in his days, his discovery made him
more than $10 billion in today’s dollar.
I have spent 10 years compiling, testing, organizing, and consistently
updating this method to create my own new version, which is
considered to be the easiest and most profitable trading system.
The Candlestick trading bible is the trading method that is going to
finally take your trading to where it should be, consistent, profitable,
easy and requiring very little time and effort.
This trading system is based on Japanese candlestick patterns in
combination with technical analysis.
All what you have to do is to spend as much time as you can to master
the method that i’am going to share with you and use it to trade any
financial market.
Learning Japanese candlestick is like learning a new language. Imagine
you got a book which is written in a foreign language, you look at the
pages but you get nothing from what is written.
The same thing when it comes to financial markets. If you don’t know
how to read Japanese candlesticks, you will never be able to trade the
market.
Japanese candlesticks are the language of financial markets, if you get
the skill of reading charts, you will understand what the market is
telling you, and you will be able to make the right decision in the right
time.
4
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
The easy to follow strategies detailed in this work will provide you with
profit making techniques that can be quickly learned.
More importantly, learning the principals of market psychology
underlying the candlestick methodology will change your overall
trading psych forever.
The Candlestick trading bible has already proven itself. Fortunes have
been made using the Japanese candlestick strategies.
I congratulate you on taking the first step in your trading education,
you are on the right path to become a better trader.
However, this is actually just the beginning of your trading career, after
finishing this eBook, the real work begins.
Don’t read this eBook very fast, this is not a novel, you should take
your time to understand all the concepts i discussed, take your notes,
and go back from time to time to review the strategies i shared with
you.
Remember, this is an educational work that will teach you professional
methods on how to make money trading financial markets.
If you got the skills that i shared with you here, you will change
completely your life and the life of people around you.
5
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
Overview
The eBook is divided into the following sections:
1-Candlesticks Anatomy
Just as humans, candlesticks have different body sizes, and when it
comes to trading, it’s important to check out the bodies of candlesticks
and understand the psychology behind it. that’s what you will learn in
this section.
2-Candlestick patterns
Candlestick patterns are an integral part of technical analysis,
candlestick patterns emerge because human actions and reactions are
patterned and constantly repeated.
In this section you will learn how to recognize the most important
candlestick patterns, the psychology behind it’s formation, and what
do they indicate when they form in the market.
3-The Market structure
In this section, you will learn how to identify trending markets, ranging
markets, and choppy markets. You will learn how these markets move
and how to trade them professionally.
You will also learn how to draw support and resistance, and trendlines.
4-Time frames and top down analysis
Multiple time frame analysis is very important for you as a price action
trader, in this section you will learn how to analyze the market using
the top down analysis approach.
5-Trading strategies and tactics
In this section you will learn how trade the market using four price
action trading strategies:
-The pin bar strategy
6
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
-The engulfing bar strategy
-The inside bar strategy
-The inside bar false breakout strategy
-Trades examples
I highly recommend you to master the previous sections before
jumping to this section, because if you don’t master the basics, you will
not be able to use these strategies as effective as it would be.
In this section you will learn how to identify high probability setups in
the market, and how to use these candlestick patterns in trending
markets and ranging markets to maximize your profits.
6-Money management
In this section, you will learn how to create a money management and
risk control plan that will allow you to protect your trading capital and
become consistently profitable.
7
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
History of candlesticks
Candlesticks have been around a lot longer than anything similar in the
Western world.
The Japanese were looking at charts as far back as the 17th century,
whereas the earliest known charts in the US appeared in the late 19th
century.
Rice trading had been established in Japan in 1654, with gold, silver
and rape seed oil following soon after.
Rice markets dominated Japan at this time and the commodity
became, it seems, more important than hard currency.
Munehisa Homma (aka Sokyu Honma), a Japanese rice trader born in
the early 1700s, is widely credited as being one of the early exponents
of tracking price action.
He understood basic supply and demand dynamics, but also identified
the fact that emotion played a part in the setting of price.
He wanted to track the emotion of the market players, and this work
became the basis of candlestick analysis.
He was extremely well respected, to the point of being promoted to
Samurai status.
The Japanese did an extremely good job of keeping candlesticks quiet
from the Western world, right up until the 1980s, when suddenly there
was a large cross-pollination of banks and financial institutions around
the world.
This is when Westerners suddenly got wind of these mystical charts.
Obviously, this was also about the time that charting in general
suddenly became a lot easier, due to the widespread use of the PC.
In the late 1980s several Western analysts became interested in
candlesticks. In the UK Michael Feeny, who was then head of TA in
8
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
London for Sumitomo, began using candlesticks in his daily work, and
started introducing the ideas to London professionals.
In the December 1989 edition of Futures magazine Steve Nison, who
was a technical analyst at Merrill Lynch in New York, produced a paper
that showed a series of candlestick reversal patterns and explained
their predictive powers.
He went on to write a book on the subject, and a fine book it is too.
Thank you Messrs Feeny and Nison.
Since then candlesticks have gained in popularity by the year, and
these days they seem to be the standard template that most analysts
work from.
Why candlesticks are important to your trading analysis?
-Candlesticks are important to you trading analysis because, it is
considered as a visual representation of what is going on in the market.
By looking at a candlestick, we can get valuable information about the
open, high, low and the close of price, which will give us an idea about
the price movement.
-Candlesticks are flexible, they can be used alone or in combination
with technical analysis tools such as the moving averages, and
momentum oscillators, they can be used also with methods such the
Dow Theory or the Eliot wave theory.
I personally use candlesticks with support and resistance, trend lines,
and other technical tools that you will discover in the next chapters.
-The human behavior in relation to money is always dominated by
fear; greed, and hope, candlestick analysis will help us understand
these changing psychological factors by showing us how buyers and
sellers interact with each other’s.
-Candlesticks provide more valuable information than bar charts, using
them is a win-win situation, because you can get all the trading signals
9
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
that bar chart generate with the added clarity and additional signals
generated by candlesticks.
-Candlesticks are used by most professional traders, banks, and hedge
funds, these guys trade millions of dollars every day, they can move
the market whenever they want.
They can take your money easily if you don’t understand the game.
Even if you can trade one hundred thousand dollars trading account,
you can’t move the market; you can’t control what is going in the
market.
Using candlestick patterns will help you understand what the big boys
are doing, and will show you when to enter, when to exit, and when to
stay away from the market.
10
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
What is a candlestick?
Japanese candlesticks are formed using the open, high, low and close
of the chosen time frame.
-If the close is above the open, we can say that the candlestick is bullish
which means that the market is rising in this period of time. Bullish
candlesticks are always displayed as white candlestick.
The most trading platform use white color to refer to bullish
candlesticks. But the color doesn’t matter, you can use whatever color
you want.
The most important is the open price and the close price.
-If the close is below the open, we can say that the candlestick is
bearish which indicates that the market is falling in this session.
Bearish candles are always displayed as black candlesticks. But this is
not a rule.
11
THE CANDLESTICK TRADING BIBLE
You can find different colors used to differentiate between bullish
and bearish candlesticks.
-The filled part of the candlestick is called the real body.
-The thin lines poking above and below the body are called shadows.
-The top of the upper shadow is the high
-The bottom of the lower shadow is the low.
Candlestick body sizes:
Candlesticks have different body sizes:
Long bodies refer to strong buying or selling pressure, if there is a
candlestick in which the close is above the open with a long body, this
indicates that buyers are stronger and they are taking con