“Many investors have substantial business expertise, and experience in specifi c capital
markets. But such knowledge is not enough. Success requires an integrated view of
the investment problem, and of the full range of investment products. Peter Stanyer’s
excellent guide to investment strategy provides exactly this, summarising the latest
thinking in a concise, readable format.”
John Campbell, Professor of Economics, Harvard University
“Peter Stanyer uses both his practical investment experience and recent developments
in fi nancial economics to tackle many of the more important and complex decisions
faced by investors. Don’t expect to fi nd simple answers; do expect to be stimulated.”
Richard Brealey, Emeritus Professor of Finance, London Business School
“This book provides a thoughtful and incisive appraisal of the optimal approach
to long-term investment, drawing on historical data, the latest academic studies
and best practice among institutional investors. It will be essential reading for
investment advisers and private bankers as well as individual investors seeking
to preserve and grow wealth.”
John Calverley, Chief Economist and Strategist, American Express Bank
“Investing today grows more complex by the day, and it is important to take a step
back and simplify the foundation of the principles that guide the desired results. This
guide does just that in a practical and accessible manner.”
Christopher Hyzy, Investment Strategist, U.S. Trust
“Peter Stanyer has used the full breadth of his experience to construct a guide which
is practical but also insightful. The style is that of a knowledgeable friend, telling
interesting stories, patiently explaining diffi cult points, but never talking down. Both
the professional investor and the interested amateur will quickly fi nd much useful and
relevant information in this book.”
Chris Hitchen, Chief Executive, Railways Pension Trustee Co Ltd
“Wealth management has been traditionally associated with expensive lunches,
bespoke tailoring and not much else. Peter Stanyer’s excellent, accessible guide
brings the techniques of quantitative fi nance to wealth management, giving the
subject a structure and content that has been sorely needed.”
Dr Steve Satchell, Reader of Financial Econometrics, Cambridge University; Fellow,
Trinity College, Cambridge
Peter Stanyer is one of the most knowledgeable investment professionals
I encountered during my three decades at Merrill Lynch. Peter has utilised
sound academic research, but he has also listened to investors over the years.
The result is a clear, practical and authoritative book on investing in today’s
markets that will be useful for both high net worth investors and their fi nancial
advisers. I highly recommend it.
Winthrop H. Smith Jr, Chairman of the Advisory Board of Overture Financial
Services, former Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. and Chairman
of Merrill Lynch International, Inc.
GGddee IInnvveesstt SSttrraatt..iinnddbb ii 1111//1100//0066 1155::3355::0033
“Peter Stanyer is one of the most perceptive investment thinkers in the industry and
his sharp-end experience is revealed in this book. Clear and concise, and always to
the point, this guide to investment strategy covers all the key issues that investors
need to consider when deciding how to invest their assets for the long-term.”
Roger Urwin, Global Head Investment Consulting,
Watson Wyatt Limited
“In this excellent guide to investment strategy, Peter Stanyer sets out to explain the
nature and characteristics of the world’s investment markets. Most importantly, he
relates this analysis to the different objectives and preferences of investors. The book
should prove to be an invaluable reference for wealth managers.”
Chris Cheetham, CEO, HSBC Halbis Partners
“Peter Stanyer has produced an elegant and well-crafted “how to” manual that can
serve trustees, investment managers and high net worth investors well, in their quest
for solid investment results at sensible risks. Unlike many books on investing, he
begins with the all-important dictum: know thyself.”
Robert D. Arnott, Chairman, Research Affi liates;
Editor, Financial Analysts Journal
“Essential reference for anyone with an interest in investment markets. From the
discussion of the importance of planning and separating one’s ‘safety fi rst’ portfolio,
such as a well-constructed bond ladder, from ‘investment lottery tickets’ to the review
of new ways of thinking about the risk of small cap and value stocks, it is an invaluable
addition to the fi nance books of any investor.”
Joe Moglia, CEO, TD AMERITRADE
“An excellent primer on investment strategy that is written in a highly accessible
fashion for the lay as well as the experienced reader. Unlike many who write on this
topic, Peter Stanyer takes full account of behavioural fi nance fi ndings in addition to
traditional fi nance. He explains the jargon, acknowledges what can’t be known or is
the subject of debate, and provides the tools for investors better to understand their
portfolio investment choices and associated risk levels. I would recommend this guide
to investment strategy to anyone looking for a candid, plain-English explanation of
the world of investing.”
Thomas Sowanick, Wall Street strategist
GGddee IInnvveesstt SSttrraatt..iinnddbb iiii 1111//1100//0066 1155::3355::0044
GUIDE TO INVESTMENT STRATEGY
GGddee IInnvveesstt SSttrraatt..iinnddbb iiiiii 1111//1100//0066 1155::3355::0044
OTHER ECONOMIST BOOKS
Guide to Analysing Companies
Guide to Business Modelling
Guide to Business Planning
Guide to Economic Indicators
Guide to the European Union
Guide to Financial Markets
Guide to Management Ideas
Numbers Guide
Style Guide
Dictionary of Business
Dictionary of Economics
International Dictionary of Finance
Brands and Branding
Business Consulting
Business Ethics
Business Miscellany
Business Strategy
China’s Stockmarket
Dealing with Financial Risk
Economics
Future of Technology
Globalisation
Headhunters and How to Use Them
Successful Mergers
The City
Wall Street
Essential Director
Essential Economics
Essential Investment
Essential Negotiation
Pocket World in Figures
GGddee IInnvveesstt SSttrraatt..iinnddbb iivv 1111//1100//0066 1155::3355::0044
GUIDE TO INVESTMENT STRATEGY
How to understand markets, risk, rewards
and behaviour
Peter Stanyer
GGddee IInnvveesstt SSttrraatt..iinnddbb vv 1111//1100//0066 1155::3355::0044
THE ECONOMIST IN ASSOCIATION WITH
PROFILE BOOKS LTD
Published by Profi le Books Ltd
3a Exmouth House, Pine Street, London ec1r 0jh
www.profi lebooks.com
Copyright © The Economist Newspaper Ltd, 2006
Text copyright © Peter Stanyer, 2006
All rights reserved. Without limiting the rights under copyright reserved above, no
part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in or introduced into a retrieval
system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means (electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording or otherwise), without the prior written permission of both
the copyright owner and the publisher of this book.
The greatest care has been taken in compiling this book.
However, no responsibility can be accepted by the publishers or compilers
for the accuracy of the information presented.
This publication contains the author’s opinions and is designed to provide accurate
and authoritative information. It is sold with the understanding that the author,
the publisher and The Economist are not engaged in rendering legal, accounting,
investment-planning, or other professional advice. The reader should seek the
services of a qualifi ed professional for such advice; the author, the publisher and
The Economist cannot be held responsible for any loss incurred as a result of specifi c
investments or planning decisions made by the reader.
Where opinion is expressed it is that of the author and does not necessarily coincide
with the editorial views of The Economist Newspaper.
Typeset in EcoType by MacGuru Ltd
info@macguru.org.uk
Printed in Great Britain by
Creative Print and Design (Wales), Ebbw Vale
A CIP catalogue record for this book is available
from the British Library
ISBN-10: 1 86197 851 0
ISBN-13: 978 1 86197 851 6
GGddee IInnvveesstt SSttrraatt..iinnddbb vvii 1111//1100//0066 1155::3355::0044
To Alex
GGddee IInnvveesstt SSttrraatt..iinnddbb vviiii 1111//1100//0066 1155::3355::0044
This page intentionally left blank
Contents
Foreword xix
Introduction xxi
Part 1 The big picture
1 Setting the scene 3
Think about risk before it hits you 5
Know your niche 7
Box Base currency 10
2 Understand your behaviour 11
Insights from behavioural fi nance 11
Investor biases 13
Investor preferences 15
Loss aversion
Mental accounting and behavioural portfolio theory
Investment strategy and behavioural fi nance 18
Parameter uncertainty and behavioural fi nance 20
Traditional fi nance, behavioural fi nance and evolution 21
3 Market investment returns: will the markets make me rich? 23
Sources of investment performance 23
Safe havens that provide different kinds of shelter 25
Which government bonds will perform best? 25
Box Is the break-even infl ation rate the market’s forecast? 27
What premium return should bond investors expect? 29
The equity risk premium 31
Equity risk: don’t bank on time diversifying risk 35
4 The time horizon and the shape of strategy: start with no
frills and few thrills 40
Short-term investment strategies 40
The chance of a bad outcome may be much higher than
you think
No all-seasons short-term strategy
GGddee IInnvveesstt SSttrraatt..iinnddbb iixx 1111//1100//0066 1155::3355::0044
Box Do bonds provide insurance for short-term investors? 45
Are you in it for the long term? 47
Time horizon for private and institutional wealth
Long-term investors 49
Financial planning and the time horizon
“Safe havens”, benchmarking, risk-taking and long-term
strategies
The danger of keeping things too simple
Good and bad volatility
Box Unexpected infl ation: yet again the party pooper 55
“Keep-it-simple” long-term asset allocation models
Infl ation, again
Laddered government bonds: a useful safety-fi rst portfolio
Bond ladders, tax and creditworthiness: the case of US
municipal bonds
Box Orange County saga: What is a good-quality municipal
bond? 62
What’s the catch in following one of these long-term
strategies?
Lifestyle investing: income from employment often helps to
diversify investment risk 64
Long-term strategy: “imperfect information
changes everything” 65
Some “keep-it-simple” concluding messages 66
5 Implementing “keep-it-simple” strategies 68
Market timing: an unavoidable risk 68
Strongly held market views and the safe haven:
the 1990s equity boom 70
Box Bubbles 70
Should long-term investors hold more equities? 74
Part 2 Implementing more complicated strategies
6 Setting the scene 79
A health warning: liquidity risk 79
Behavioural fi nance, market effi ciency and arbitrage
opportunities 81
Barriers to arbitrage 83
Fundamental risk and arbitrage
GGddee IInnvveesstt SSttrraatt..iinnddbb xx 1111//1100//0066 1155::3355::0044
Herd behaviour and arbitrage
Implementation costs, market evolution and arbitrage
Institutional wealth and private wealth: taxation 87
7 Equities 91
Concentrated stock positions in private portfolios 91
Corporate executive remuneration programmes
The restless shape of the equity market 93
Stockmarket anomalies and the fundamental insight of the
Capital Asset Pricing Model 94
“Small cap” and “large cap” 96
Don’t get carried away by your “style” 99
Box Value and growth managers 100
Should cautious investors overweight value stocks? 102
Equity dividends for cautious investors 104
Home bias: how much international? 105
To hedge or not to hedge international equities 110
International equities and liquidity risk 113
8 Bonds, debt and credit 115
Credit quality and the role of credit-rating agencies 116
Portfolio diversifi cation and credit risk 120
Box Local currency emerging-market debt 122
Securitisation and modern ways to invest in bond markets 123
Mortgage-backed securities
Box The r