Trading for beginners
The Bible 7 in 1:
Swing Trading, Options for beginners,Options Crash Course, Dividend
Investing,Futures Trading,Day Trading for Beginners,Forex Trading.How
to start creating Passive Income with Investing on line.
TONY CORRERA
Copyright 2020 by Tony Correra
© Copyright 2020 - All rights reserved.
The content contained within this book may not be reproduced,
duplicated or transmitted without direct written permission from
the author or the publisher.
Under no circumstances will any blame or legal responsibility
be held against the publisher, or author, for any damages,
reparation, or monetary loss due to the information contained
within this book. Either directly or indirectly.
Legal Notice:
This book is copyright protected. This book is only for personal
use. You cannot amend, distribute, sell, use, quote or paraphrase
any part, or the content within this book, without the consent of the
author or publisher.
Disclaimer Notice:
Please note the information contained within this document is
for educational and entertainment purposes only. All effort has
been executed to present accurate, up to date, and reliable,
complete information. No warranties of any kind are declared or
implied. Readers acknowledge that the author is not engaging in
the rendering of legal, financial, medical or professional advice.
The content within this book has been derived from various
sources. Please consult a licensed professional before attempting
any techniques outlined in this book.By reading this document, the
reader agrees that under no circumstances is the author responsible
for any losses, direct or indirect, which are incurred as a result of
the use of information contained within this document, including,
but not limited to, — errors, omissions, or inaccuracies.
Table of Contents
Book 1: Swing Trading
Introduction
Chapter 1: How Swing Trading Works
Chapter 2: Swing Trading and Other Styles of trading
Chapter 3: Tools and Platforms for Swing Trading
Chapter 4: Swing Trading and Financial Instruments
Chapter 5: Fundamental Analysis
Chapter 6: Technical Analysis (Price Action)
Chapter 7: Technical Analysis (Indicators)
Chapter 8: Chart patterns
Chapter 9: Swing Trading Strategies for Forex
Chapter 10: Swing Trading Strategies for Stocks and Options
Chapter 11: Money Management and the Psychology Of Trading
Conclusion
Book 2: Options Trading
Introduction
Chapter 1: Options Trading Explained
Chapter 2: Options Basics
Chapter 3: Options Pricing
Chapter 4: Options Greeks
Chapter 5: Options Trading as a Business
Chapter 6: Risks and Benefits with Options
Chapter 7: Profit with Options Strategies and Positions
Chapter 8: Selling Options
Chapter 9: Tips and Tricks for Success
Conclusion
Book 3: Options Trading Crash Course
INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER 1: OPTIONS TRADING ADVANCED
CHAPTER 2: HOW TO START
CHAPTER 3: PLATFORMS AND TOOLS
CHAPTER 4: ADVANCED FINANCIAL LEVERAGE
CHAPTER 5 : TECHNICAL AND FUNDAMENTAL ANALYSIS
CHAPTER 6 : MINDSET AND EMOTION CONTROL
CHAPTER 7: ADVANCED STRATEGIES IN OPTION TRADING
CHAPTER 8: TIPS AND TRICKS FOR TOP TRADER
CHAPTER 9: MONEY MANAGEMENT CONCEPT
CHAPTER 10: RISKS IN OPTIONS TRADING
CONCLUSION
Book 4: Dividend Investing
INTRODUCTION
CHAPTER 1: OVERVIEW OF DIVIDEND INVESTING
CHAPTER 2: WHAT IS DIVIDEND INVESTING
CHAPTER 3: WHY YOU SHOULD INVEST IN DIVIDEND
STOCKS
CHAPTER 4: FINDING A BROKER AND IMPLEMENTING YOUR
INVESTMENT
PLANS
CHAPTER 5: INCOME FROM DIVIDEND INVESTING
CHAPTER 6: STRATEGIES OF DIVIDEND INVESTING
CHAPTER 7: A SHORTCUT FOR PICKING DIVIDEND STOCKS
CHAPTER 8: LITTLE CASH MACHINE
CHAPTER 9: WHEN TO SELL AND BUY A STOCK
CHAPTER 10: HOW TO SURVIVE A BEAR MARKET
CHAPTER 11: FUNDAMENTAL ANALYSIS
CHAPTER 12: BUILDING AND REBALANCING YOUR
DIVIDEND PORTFOLIO
CHAPTER 13: RISKS AND AVOIDABLE MISTAKES IN
DIVIDEND STOCK
CHAPTER 14: TAX IMPLICATIONS
CONCLUSION
Book 5: Futures Trading for Beginners
INTRODUCTION
Chapter 1: Futures and Micro Futures
Chapter 2: Day Trading: Future, Micro Futures vs Stock
Chapter 3: Futures and Micro Futures Contracts
Chapter 4: Choosing a Broker
Chapter 5: The Types of Trade Orders to Use for Index Trading
Chapter 6: Trade Psychology and Account Management
Chapter 7: Technical Charting Patterns and Indicators
Chapter 8: Practice to Gain Confidence Prior
Chapter 9: Checklist and Trading Log
Chapter 10: Mistakes to Avoid
Chapter 11: Develop a Trading Plan
CONCLUSION
Book 6: Day Tading for Beginners
Introduction
Chapter 1: What Is Day Trading?
Chapter 2: Risk And Account Management
Chapter 3: How To Find Stocks For Trades?
Chapter 4: Assets 101: Stocks, Bonds, Currencies, And Commodities
Chapter 5: Assets 102: ETFs, Cryptocurrency, Options, And Derivatives
Chapter 6: Tools And Platforms
Chapter 7: Introduction to Candlesticks
Chapter 8: Picture This – Technical Analysis
Chapter 9: All About Market Indicators
Chapter 10: Day Trading Strategies
Chapter 11: Step-By-Step Guide For A Successful Trade
Step 1 – Build A Watchlist
Step 2 – Create A Trading Plan
Step 3 – Execute Your Trade
Conclusion
Book 7: Forex Tading for Beginners
Introduction
Chapter 1: The Enigma Called Forex Trading
Chapter 2: The Intimidating Stuff First
Chapter 3: Understanding Forex Trading
Chapter 4: Major Currencies and Currency Pairs
Chapter 5: Currency Quote
Chapter 6: The Curious Case of Leverage
Chapter 7: Choosing a Broker
Chapter 8: Getting Acquainted With Demo Accounts
Chapter 9: Forces the Drive the Foreign Exchange Market|outline
Chapter 10: Factors Determining the Currency Pricing in the Forex
Marke
Chapter 11: Analytical Approaches
Chapter 12: The Mechanics of Trading
Chapter 13: Forex Trading Styles
Chapter 14: Analysis Based Trading Strategies
Chapter 15: Risk Management
Chapter 16: Understanding MT4 Trading Platform
Conclusion
Swing Trading
A Guide for beginners in Options, Stock and Forex , Strategies with
Technical Analysis, Chart Pattern and Money Management
Tony Correra
Copyright 2019 by Tony Correra
Download the Audio Book Version of This Book for FREE
If you love listening to audio books on-the-go, I have great news for
you. You can download the audio book version of this book for FREE just
by signing up for a FREE 30-day audible trial! See below for more details!
Audible Trial Benefits
As an audible customer, you will receive the below benefits with your
30-day free trial:
.FREE audible book copy of this book
.After the trial, you will get 1 credit each month to use on any
audiobook
.Your credits automatically roll over to the next month if you don’t use
them
.Choose from Audible’s 200,000 + titles
.Listen anywhere with the Audible app across multiple devices
.Make easy, no-hassle exchanges of any audiobook you don’t love
.Keep your audiobooks forever, even if you cancel your membership
.And much more
Click the links below to get started!
For Audible US
For Audible UK
For Audible FR
For Audible DE
Introduction
Congratulations and thank you for downloading this book!
In this book we hope to introduce you to swing trading and give you the
tools and background you need in order to get started on your own. Many
readers might not know what swing trading is really about, so let’s start by
explaining the general concepts, which are actually quite simple.
Swing trading is a strategy that seeks to make money from short-term
price movements. Rather than investing over the long term, or making
quick moves in a single trading day, swing traders hold their trades for days
or weeks at a time. At the most, a swing trader will hold their investments
for a couple of months.
While there are specific techniques that have been developed for
different financial markets, swing trading as a method is quite general.
Swing traders can be found trading on every financial market, including
stocks, options, and Forex among others.
Swing trading is about searching the market for opportunities. Rather
than investing all of their capital in securities, they may spend days or
weeks on the sidelines, waiting for the right moment to get in on a trade
they are interested in. Swing traders can profit by going long – that is by
investing in a security looking for the price to increase, or they can short,
and earn profits from declining prices. In short swing trading is looking for
the right trend in a security, whether its moving up, or moving down.
To succeed you need to know how to find the right times to get in and
out of a trade. In order to find them, you will have to understand financial
market charting, and recognize common patterns that happen when trends
are about to take off or reverse. Swing traders also use the tools of technical
analysis to detect shifts in the underlying trends of securities.
Swing trading is not for everyone, and it’s not a get rich quick scheme.
To succeed at swing trading, you are going to have to study and learn it as a
craft, and pay close attention to the markets. People who would prefer
simply investing their money and not thinking about it aren’t suitable for
swing trading.
You can make large profits as a swing trader, with returns that beat the
market by a large margin. But you aren’t going to make instant riches, in
most cases. Of course there are some swing traders who will score a big win
quickly, but most swing traders are going to have to methodically build
their portfolio over time. But if you are dedicated and interested in being
deeply involved with the financial markets, swing trading is definitely a
strategy that can work, and it’s a lot safer than day trading.
Chapter 1: How Swing Trading Works
Swing trading is deceptively simple – you earn profits by going with the
trends in the market. To do this, you study a given financial security and
look for support and resistance. Support is the low pricing point below
which the asset has not crossed. Resistance is the high pricing point, above
which a break is not possible. Of course support and resistance are
temporary pricing levels, and they are apt to change at any time. On the
stock market, a bad earnings report can lead a stock to drop below its
previous levels of support. On the other hand, a good earnings report or the
release of a new product can cause prices to skyrocket. Part of your job as a
swing trader is to keep up with the markets and market news, so you know
when such opportunities might present themselves. We will talk about
support and resistance in more detail later, when we discuss chart analysis.
Of course prices are moving up and down all the time, so you aren’t
always waiting for big news to break. There are opportunities to get in on
trades all the time – if you know what to look for. Prices will move
“sideways” for long time periods, before making a break to the upside or
downside. Alternatively they can be “boxed in” between support and
resistance. Even then there are opportunities to earn profits, although they
won’t be as large as when there are big movements. We will be teaching
you what to look for later in the book.
How to Make Profits from Swing Trading
To understand how you can profit from swing trading, it can be helpful
to look at a couple of mock up charts. First let’s take a look at the general
idea. Asset prices fluctuate down all the time, and on different time scales.
In its simplest form swing trading takes advantages in the swings up and
down on the markets – you buy low and sell high.
Of course any investor can say they hope to buy low and sell high. The
swing trader hopes to capitalize on a swing, or a single move in the asset
price. Swing traders hope to earn profits from breakouts, when the asset
price increases to a new level. Alternatively, you can short the asset if its
experiencing a major decline. Swing traders can also earn smaller profits as
the asset price bounces higher and lower about the median.
This graphic indicates price levels of support and resistance for some
financial asset. Our goal in this chart is to look for an opportunity to buy the
asset when the price is low, and then sell it when the price rises. There ar