S G
tudy uide for
t N
he ew
t L
radiNG for a iviNG
The Wiley Trading series features books by traders who have survived the
market’s ever-changing environment and have prospered—some by reinvent-
ing systems, others by getting back to basics. Whether you are a novice trader,
professional or someone in-between, these books will deliver the advice and
strategies you need to prosper today and in the future. For more on this series,
visit our website at www.WileyTrading.com.
Founded in 1807, John Wiley & Sons is the oldest independent publishing
company in the United States. With offices in North America, Europe, Australia
and Asia, Wiley is globally committed to developing and marketing print and
electronic products and services for our customers’ professional and personal
knowledge and understanding.
S G
tudy uide for
t N
he ew
t
radiNG for a
L
iviNG
Psychology • Discipline
Trading Tools and Systems
Risk Control • Trade Management
Dr. Alexander Elder
www.elder.com
www.spiketrade.com
Cover design: Paul DiNovo
Copyright © 2014 by by Dr. Alexander Elder. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or
by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted
under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permis-
sion of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the appropriate per-copy fee to the Copyright
Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978) 646-8600,
or on the Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the
Permissions Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011,
fax (201) 748-6008, or online at http://www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in
preparing this book, they make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness
of the contents of this book and specifically disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a
particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended by sales representatives or written sales materi-
als. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your situation. You should consult with
a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss of profit or any
other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our
Customer Care Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at
(317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material included
with standard print versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book
refers to media such as a CD or DVD that is not included in the version you purchased, you may download this
material at http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more information about Wiley products, visit www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
ISBN 978-1-118-46745-9 (Paperback)
ISBN 978-1-118-98470-3 (ebk)
ISBN 978-1-118-98471-0 (ebk)
Printed in the United States of America
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
CCOONNTTEENNTTSS
About This Study Guide ix
PART I QueStioNS aNd ratiNG ScaLeS 1
Introduction 3
ONE Individual Psychology 7
TWO Mass Psychology 13
THREE Classical Chart Analysis 19
FOUR Computerized Technical Analysis 27
FIVE Volume and Time 37
SIX General Market Indicators 49
SEVEN Trading Systems 57
EIGHT Trading Vehicles 65
NINE Risk Management 71
TEN Practical Details 79
ELEVEN Good Record-Keeping 85
v
vi Contents
PART II aNSwerS aNd commeNtS 89
Introduction 91
ONE Individual Psychology 95
TWO Mass Psychology 99
THREE Classical Chart Analysis 103
FOUR Computerized Technical Analysis 107
FIVE Volume and Time 113
SIX General Market Indicators 119
SEVEN Trading Systems 123
EIGHT Trading Vehicles 129
NINE Risk Management 133
TEN Practical Details 137
ELEVEN Good Record-Keeping 141
Afterword 145
Sources 147
About the Author 149
ABOUT THIS STUDY GUIDE
E
xperienced traders seem to glide through the markets, swinging into and out
of trades. Their trading appears effortless, like downhill skiing on TV. The
illusion of ease vanishes when you clamp on a pair of skis and discover the bumps on
the slope. If you want to improve your trading skills, you have to work, study, and
do your homework.
I created this Study Guide to help you grow and succeed as a trader. It is based on
my years of experience as a trader and teacher of traders. The more you study the
markets and your reactions to them, the more likely you are to succeed. You need to
learn more about yourself as well as the markets—good traders always learn.
Each question in this Guide is linked to a specific chapter in The New Trading for
a Living—psychology, risk management, indicators, and so on. Write down your
answers and compare them with those in the book. When answering chart-related
questions, cover each chart with a sheet of paper and move it slowly from left to
right to imitate the unfolding of market action. Practice dealing with the uncertainty
of the markets while working with this Guide.
This Guide asks questions and provides answers—but reasonable people may dis-
agree with some of them. Trading is partly a science and partly an art—partly objec-
tive and partly subjective. Let this Guide challenge you to think deeper about the
markets and your reactions to them.
I am grateful to Henry Abelman and Jeff Parker, both repeat winners of SpikeTrade’s
Eagle Eye award, for reviewing all questions and answers. Carol Keegan Kayne did
the final check for clarity and precision.
vii
viii ABOUT THIS STUDY GUIDE
Thanks to my former professors and students at the universities in Estonia
and the United States for providing many opportunities to teach and develop my
educational style. Thanks to the members of SpikeTrade.com, who keep sending me
trading-related questions. Posting answers to them week after week keeps me on
my toes.
I hope this Guide helps you to sharpen your skills and to become a better, more
confident trader.
Dr. Alexander Elder
New York–Vermont, 2014
S G
tudy uide for
t N
he ew
t L
radiNG for a iviNG
PART 1
Questions
and
Rating Scales
Introduction
T
o win in trading, you must outperform masses of competitors. The majority
must lose in order to pay those who win. To become a successful trader, you
must beat the odds against you. You must learn to think and act differently from the
market crowd.
The New Trading for a Living contains several unorthodox trading ideas. The aim of
this Introduction is to pause at the beginning of the journey and to see whether you
are in tune with some of the unconventional thinking about trading.
Questions Trial 1 Trial 2 Trial 3 Trial 4 Trial 5
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Correct
answers
3
4 QUESTIONS
Question 0-1
Which of the following methods of making trading decisions can serve traders well
in the long run?
I. Fundamental analysis
II. Inside information
III. Hunches and tips
IV. Technical analysis
A. I and II
B. II and III
C. I and IV
D. III and IV
Question 0-2
Which of the following isn’t needed for trading success?
A. Trading psychology
B. Analytic method
C. Connections with market insiders
D. Money management method
Question 0-3
The best approach to reading a book on trading is to
A. test all the ideas that interest you on your own market data.
B. incorporate all the ideas in your work.
C. not trust what you read—why would anyone share good trading ideas?
D. ask other traders whether the ideas in the book worked for them.
Question 0-4
Which of the following is not a major cause of trading losses?
A. Slippage
B. Commissions
C. Emotional trading
D. Theft
Question 0-5
Trader Jim and Trader John take the opposite sides of a trade. Both pay commis-
sions, and both get hit with slippage. Trader Jim, the winner, collects $920, while
Trader John, the loser, is out $1080. The result of this trade illustrates the fact that
trading is a:
INTRODUCTION 5
A. Zero-sum game
B. Positive expectations game
C. Random Walk
D. Minus-sum game
Question 0-6
You find a stock trading at $20 and plan to buy 100 shares. Your broker will charge a
commission of $10. Which of the following statements is incorrect?
A. When dealing with thousands of dollars, don’t quibble about $10.
B. You need to make 1% profit to avoid losing money on this trade.
C. Using 50% margin, you need to make more than 2% profit to avoid losing money
on this trade.
Question 0-7
You place a market order to buy 100 shares of a rising stock that currently trades at
$20. Your order gets filled at $20.08. Your slippage on the trade is
A. 80 cents
B. $8
C. $16
D. $80
Question 0-8
The stock you bought in Question 7 rallied to $22. You expect the rally to continue
but raise your stop to $21 to protect half of your paper profit. The stock sinks and
hits your stop—you get filled at $20.88. Your slippage on this trade represents what
percentage of your gross profit?
A. 5 percent
B. 10 percent
C. 25 percent
D. 50 percent
Question 0-9
In the trade described in Questions 7 and 8, the trading industry took what percent-
age of your gross gain?
A. 25 percent
B. 50 percent
C. 75 percent
D. 100 percent
ONE
Individual Psychology
Y
our greatest danger in trading comes from the person holding this book—you.
Our emotions often tip the scale between winning and losing. If you can stay
cool and make rational decisions, trading profits will follow.
A professional trader is calm and collected. He knows what he’ll do if the market
goes up, down, or sideways. On days when he is not sure, he stays out, patiently
monitoring the market from the sidelines. A pro feels in control.
If you feel giddy with joy when the market goes your way but freeze in fear when
it swings against you, your actions will be emotional and your account will suffer.
When the mind becomes clouded by greed or fear, even the best trading systems fly
out the window. The questions that follow are designed to help you focus on trading
psychology.
77
8 QUESTIONS
Questions Trial 1 Trial 2 Trial 3 Trial 4 Trial 5
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
Correct
answers
INDIVIDUAL PSYCHOLOGY 9
Question 1-1
A successful trader’s attitude toward risk is usually one of
A. avoiding risk.
B. thriving on risk.
C. enjoying risky situations, even though losses hurt.
D. measuring each risk.
Question 1-2
The goal of a successful trader is to
A. become the best trader he can.
B. make more money than other traders.
C. buy things that will set him above other traders.
D. win respect of family and friends.
Question 1-3
A trader on a losing streak has lost 20 percent of his account. He would best be
advised to
A. subscribe to a newsletter with a verified track record.
B. purchase a trading system with a history of profitability and low drawdowns.
C. stop trading until he has analyzed his losing trades and determined their causes.
D. continue to trade because the laws of probability indicate a likely turn in his favor.
Question 1-4
Having a large trading account is desirable for all of the following reasons except that
A. you can afford to lose more.
B. you can diversify among more markets.
C. you can trade different systems.
D. your expenses represent a smaller percentage of your account.
Question 1-5
Which two of the following statements about commercially sold trading systems are
most accurate?
I. A track record provides confidence that a system will continue to perform well.
II. The fact that a system is sold by a prominent trader provides an extra margin