10381_Sincere_fm.c 7/18/03 10:59 AM Page i
UNDERSTANDING
STOCKS
M i c h a e l S i n c e re
ebook_copyright 8 x 10.qxd 8/27/03 9:29 AM Page 1
Copyright © 2004 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. All rights reserved. Manufactured in the
United States of America. Except as permitted under the United States Copyright Act of 1976, no part
of this publication may be reproduced or distributed in any form or by any means, or stored in a data-
base or retrieval system, without the prior written permission of the publisher.
0-07-143582-4
The material in this eBook also appears in the print version of this title: 0-07-140913-0
All trademarks are trademarks of their respective owners. Rather than put a trademark symbol after
every occurrence of a trademarked name, we use names in an editorial fashion only, and to the benefit
of the trademark owner, with no intention of infringement of the trademark. Where such designations
appear in this book, they have been printed with initial caps.
McGraw-Hill eBooks are available at special quantity discounts to use as premiums and sales pro-
motions, or for use in corporate training programs. For more information, please contact George
Hoare, Special Sales, at george_hoare@mcgraw-hill.com or (212) 904-4069.
TERMSOFUSE
This is a copyrighted work and The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. (“McGraw-Hill”) and its licensors
reserve all rights in and to the work. Use of this work is subject to these terms. Except as permitted
under the Copyright Act of 1976 and the right to store and retrieve one copy of the work, you may not
decompile, disassemble, reverse engineer, reproduce, modify, create derivative works based upon,
transmit, distribute, disseminate, sell, publish or sublicense the work or any part of it without
McGraw-Hill’s prior consent. You may use the work for your own noncommercial and personal use;
any other use of the work is strictly prohibited. Your right to use the work may be terminated if you
fail to comply with these terms.
THE WORK IS PROVIDED “AS IS”. McGRAW-HILLAND ITS LICENSORS MAKE NO GUAR-
ANTEES OR WARRANTIES AS TO THE ACCURACY, ADEQUACYOR COMPLETENESS OF
OR RESULTS TO BE OBTAINED FROM USING THE WORK, INCLUDING ANYINFORMA-
TION THATCAN BE ACCESSED THROUGH THE WORK VIAHYPERLINK OR OTHERWISE,
AND EXPRESSLYDISCLAIM ANYWARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT
NOTLIMITED TO IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITYOR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE. McGraw-Hill and its licensors do not warrant or guarantee that the func-
tions contained in the work will meet your requirements or that its operation will be uninterrupted or
error free. Neither McGraw-Hill nor its licensors shall be liable to you or anyone else for any inac-
curacy, error or omission, regardless of cause, in the work or for any damages resulting therefrom.
McGraw-Hill has no responsibility for the content of any information accessed through the work.
Under no circumstances shall McGraw-Hill and/or its licensors be liable for any indirect, incidental,
special, punitive, consequential or similar damages that result from the use of or inability to use the
work, even if any of them has been advised of the possibility of such damages. This limitation of lia-
bility shall apply to any claim or cause whatsoever whether such claim or cause arises in contract, tort
or otherwise.
DOI: 10.1036/0071435824
DOI Page 6x9 10/2/02 1:33 PM Page 1
Want to learn more?
,
We hope you enjoy this McGraw-Hill eBook! If you d like
more information about this book, its author, or related books
and websites, please click here.
10381_Sincere_fm.c 7/18/03 10:59 AM Page iii
For more information about. this title, click here.
Contents
Acknowledgments v
Introduction vii
PART ONE
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW FIRST
1 Welcome to the Stock Market 3
2 Stocks:Not Your Only Investment 19
3 How to Classify Stocks 29
4 Fun Things You Can Do (with Stocks) 37
5 Understanding Stock Prices 49
6 Where to Buy Stocks 55
PART TWO
MONEY-MAKING STRATEGIES
7 Want to Make Money Slowly?
Try These Investment Strategies 69
8 Want to Make Money Fast?
Try These Trading Strategies 77
Copyright © 2004 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. Click here for Terms of Use.
10381_Sincere_fm.c 7/18/03 10:59 AM Page iv
iv CONTENTS
PART THREE
FINDING STOCKS TO BUY AND SELL
9 It’s Really Fundamental:
Introduction to Fundamental Analysis 89
10 Fundamental Analysis:Tools and Tactics 97
11 Let’s Get Technical:
Introduction to Technical Analysis 107
12 Technical Analysis:Tools and Tactics 131
13 The Psychology of Stocks:
Introduction to Sentiment Analysis 141
PART FOUR
UNCOMMON ADVICE
14 What Makes Stocks Go Up or Down 149
15 Why Investors Lose Money 157
16 What I Really Think about the Stock Market 171
Index 189
10381_Sincere_fm.c 7/18/03 10:59 AM Page v
Acknowledgments
I’d like to give special thanks:
To Stephen Isaacs and Jeffrey Krames at McGraw-Hill for once
again giving me the opportunity to do what I love most, and to Pattie
Amoroso for helping me put the pieces together to produce a book.
To my researcher, Maria Schmidt, who found the answer to nearly
everything I asked; Tine Claes, who never fails to find something that
needs improvement; and Lois Sincere, who has truly mastered the idio-
syncrasies of the English language.
ToTomReid,ateacheratDeerfieldHighSchoolinFlorida,forhelp-
ingtomakethemostcomplicatedfinancialconceptsseemeasy;student
Bailey Brooks for helping with editing; Dan Larkin, CEO and senior
consultant for Larkin Industries, Inc., for his extremely insightful sug-
gestions and comments; Mike Fredericks, Brad Northern, and Howard
Kornstein for their thoughtful financial analysis and insights; Colleen
McCluney for her encouragement and patience; and Oksana Smirnova
forherinspiration and enthusiasm.
To the hardworking and friendly staff at Barnes & Noble bookstore
and Starbucks in Boca Raton, Florida.
Finally, to my friends, family, and acquaintances:
Idil Baran, Krista Barth, Bruce Berger, Andrew Brownsword,
Sylvia Coppersmith, Lourdes Fernandez-Vidal, Alice Fibigrova, Joe
Harwood, Jackie Krasner, Johan Nilsson, Joanne Pessin, Hal Plotkin,
Anna Ridolfo, Tim Schenden, Tina Siegismund, Luigi Silverstri, Alex
Sincere, Debra Sincere, Miriam Sincere, Richard Sincere, Harvey
Copyright © 2004 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. Click here for Terms of Use.
10381_Sincere_fm.c 7/18/03 10:59 AM Page vi
vi ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
Small, Bob Spector, Lucie Stejskalova, Deron Wagner, and Kerstin
Woldorf.
For additional reading, I recommend the following books:
The Stock Market Course (John Wiley & Sons, 2001), by George
Fontanills and Tom Gentile
A Beginner’s Guide to Short-Term Trading (Adams Media Corpo-
ration, 2002), by Toni Turner
Reminiscences of a Stock Operator(John Wiley & Sons, 1994), by
Edward Lefevre
10381_Sincere_fm.c 7/18/03 10:59 AM Page vii
Introduction
This book will be different.
Thousands of books have already been written about the stock mar-
ket, many of them technical and tedious. Before I wrote this book, I was
amazed that so many boring books had been written about such a fas-
cinating subject. Just like you, I hate reading books that put me to sleep
by the second chapter. That is why I was so determined to write an
entertaining, easy-to-read, and educational book about the market.
I wanted to write a book that I can hand to you and say, “Read
everything in this book if you want to learn quickly about stocks.” You
don’t have to be a dummy, idiot, or fool to understand the market. You
also don’t have to be a genius. After you read this book, you will real-
ize that understanding stocks is not that hard. (The hard part is making
money, but we’ll get to that later.)
I also don’t think you should have to wade through 300 pages to
learn about the market. Too many books on stocks are as thick as col-
lege textbooks and not nearly as exciting. Even though this book is
short, it is packed with information about investing and trading. I did
my best to make sure that you would have a short and easy read.
I wrote this book because I wanted you to know the truth.
As I was writing, a corporate crime wave was sweeping across
America. Dozens of corporations were accused of cheating people out
of millions of dollars. It upset me that so many investors have become
victims of the stock market. It seems as if the name of the game is entic-
Copyright © 2004 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. Click here for Terms of Use.
10381_Sincere_fm.c 7/18/03 10:59 AM Page viii
viii INTRODUCTION
ing individual investors into the market so that they can be duped out of
all their money.
The insiders on Wall Street and in many corporations understand
the rules and know how to use them to lure you into putting your money
in the market. In this book, I promise to tell you the truth about how the
markets operate. Without that knowledge, you hardly have a chance to
win against the pros who do business on Wall Street. They go to work
every day with one goal in mind: to take money away from you.
Because the stock market is a brutal game that is often rigged in
favor of the house, you should be quite sure you know what you’re up
against before you invest your first dime. Unfortunately, you can’t win
unless you know how to play. One goal of this book is to educate you
about how the markets operate so that you can decide for yourself
whether you want to participate. By the end of the book, you’ll know
the players, the rules, and the vocabulary.
I don’t want to scare you, just prepare you.
After my unsettling introduction, you may decide that you don’t
want to have anything to do with the stock market. In my opinion, that
would be a mistake. First of all, understanding the market can help you
make financial decisions. The stock market is the core of our financial
system, and understanding how it works will guide you for the rest of
your life. In addition, the market often acts as a crystal ball, showing
where the economy is headed.
This book is also ideal for people who still aren’t sure whether to
participate in the market. By the last chapter, you should have a better
idea as to whether investing directly in the stock market makes sense
for you. Although I can’t make any promises, it is also possible that
understanding the market will help you build wealth. Perhaps you will
put your money into the stock market, but I will give you other invest-
ment ideas.
How to Read this Book
If you are a first-time investor (and even if you’re not), I suggest you
begin by reading the first, second, and fourth sections. This will give
you an overview of the market (Parts One and Two), and ways to avoid
10381_Sincere_fm.c 7/18/03 10:59 AM Page ix
INTRODUCTION ix
losing money (Part Four). Because Part Three is the most challenging
and technical, it should be saved for last. As a special bonus, at the end
of the last chapter I reveal a trading strategy that has not lost money
during the last eight calendar years. I think you’ll be intrigued by this
simple but effective strategy that contradicts the advice included in
nearly every other investment book.
I wish you the best of luck. I sincerely hope you find that learning
about stocks is an enlightening experience, one that you will always
remember.
This page intentionally left blank.
10381_Sincere_01.c 7/18/03 10:57 AM Page 1
PART ONE
WHAT YOU NEED
TO KNOW FIRST
Copyright © 2004 by The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. Click here for Terms of Use.
This page intentionally left blank.
10381_Sincere_01.c 7/18/03 10:57 AM Page 3
1
C H A P T E R
Welcome to the
Stock Market
You may be surprised, but the market is not as difficult to understand as
you might think. By the time you finish reading this chapter, you
should have enough knowledge of the market to allow you to sail
through the rest of the book. The trick is to learn about the market in
small steps, which is exactly how I present the information to you.
The Stock Market:The Biggest Auction in the World
Think of the stock market as a huge auction or swap meet (some might
call it a flea market) where