Page i
Using Options to Buy Stocks
Build Wealth with Little Risk and No Capital
Dennis Eisen, Ph.D.
Dearborn™
A Kaplan Professional Company
Page ii
This publication is designed to provide accurate and authoritative information in regard
to the subject matter covered. It is sold with the understanding that the publisher is not
engaged in rendering legal, accounting, or other professional service. If legal advice or
other expert assistance is required, the services of a competent professional should be
sought.
Associate Publisher: Cynthia Zigmund
Managing Editor: Jack Kiburz
Project Editor: Trey Thoelcke
Interior Design: Lucy Jenkins
Cover Design: Scott Rattray, Rattray Design
Typesetting: Elizabeth Pitts
© 2000 by Dennis Eisen
Published by Dearborn
A Kaplan Professional Company
All rights reserved. The text of this publication, or any part thereof, may not be
reproduced in any manner whatsoever without written permission from the publisher.
Printed in the United States of America
00 01 02 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data
Eisen, Dennis.
Using options to buy stocks / Dennis Eisen.
p. cm.
Includes bibliographical references and index.
ISBN 0-7931-3414-5 (pbk.)
1. Stock options—Handbooks, manuals, etc. 2. Investments—Handbooks,
manuals, etc.
I. Title.
HG6042.E373 2000
332.63'228—dc21 99-049348
Dearborn books are available at special quantity discounts to use as premiums and sales
promotions, or for use in corporate training programs. For more information, please call
the Special Sales Manager at 800-621-9621, ext. 4514, or write to Dearborn Financial
Publishing, Inc., 155 N. Wacker Drive, Chicago, IL 60606-1719.
Page iii
CONTENTS
Preface v
Part One 1
The Basic Approach
1. Introduction 3
2. Long-Term Options 17
3. Basic Strategy 35
4. Margin 51
5. Disposition and Taxes 63
Part Two 75
Risk, Reward, and Safety
6. Baseline Analysis 77
7. Eliminating Dogs 91
8. Out-of-the-Money LEAPS 99
9. Roll 'Em Out 109
10. Buy 'Em Out 123
11. Advanced Strategies 147
12. Hedging for Disaster 155
Part Three 165
Volatility and Premiums
13. Measuring Volatility 167
14. Option Premiums 181
15. American-Style Options 189
Part Four 203
Additional Resources
16. My Favorite Web Sites 205
17. Selected Bibliography 217
Appendix A: European Put Premiums 221
Appendix B: American Put Premiums 235
Appendix C: In-the-Money Probabilities 289
Index 335
Page v
PREFACE
There comes a time in the life of every investor when he or she runs out of money to
invest: the birth of a baby, purchase of a home, a second child, braces, another baby
(oops!), and, later on, tuition payments, wedding expenses, a second home. All of these
can temporarily suspend regular investment plans. Permanent crimps in investing can
arise when retirement plans are fully funded or retirement itself commences.
Professionals and nonprofessionals alike are subject to the laws of supply and demand,
and can find themselves at times between jobs, underemployed, or just plain out of work.
These things happen to us all, and for most, the idea of maintaining regular investment
plans during such tribulations seems impossible. Where will the money come from?
I have been a regular investor for over three decades, faithfully putting aside the dollars
needed for retirement and stuffing them into stocks, bonds, and mutual funds. Imagine
my surprise the day my financial adviser informed me that my retirement plan was now
fully funded. This was a good-news/bad-news situation. The good news was that I would
now be able to retire at 60 percent of my peak earnings for the rest of my life. The bad
news was that as a compulsive saver and avid investor, I would no longer be able to
contribute new capital with which to play the market, either for the purpose of buying
new issues or for acquiring additional shares of my favorite companies. I could sell
existing equities to do such things, but as an inveterate "buy-and-hold" investor, I was
loath to trade in any of my equity holdings.
My need to continue my investment program beyond what I was legally permitted to
contribute to my retirement plan was driven by four concerns:
1. What will happen if I outlive what the actuarial tables said were going to be my
golden years?
Page vi
2. Will there be enough in my retirement plan so I can spoil my grandchildren while I am
still alive, yet leave enough in my estate for my wife, my children, and (alas) the cut due
the Internal Revenue Service?
3. I knew I would miss the research, discussions, evaluations, and decision making that
go into the selection and buying of stocks.
4. And, hey, the difference between being an old man and an elderly gentleman is
money.
The first strategy that occurred to me for continuing my investment program was to go
on margin. Most brokers will lend you up to 50 percent of the value of your account to
buy more stocks. The trouble with this method is that you have to repay these funds with
interest. The interest rate is high—often higher than what can be safely earned on bonds,
preferred stock, and even the appreciation on many growth stocks. Furthermore, the
specter of a dreaded margin call because of a market slump, however temporary, made
me (as it does most investors) very leery.
It then occurred to me that there is a great way to acquire stocks without trading what
you've got or using borrowed funds. Simply stated, the method involves selling long-
term options on highly rated companies and using the premiums received to further your
investment program. There is no interest paid on the funds received; the funds never
have to be repaid (because they have not been borrowed); and the equity requirements
needed to do this are much lower than those for regular margin buying. Although I
adapted and perfected this technique to suit my own needs and situation, it can be used
by any investor who has built up some measure of equity and would like to acquire
additional stocks without contributing additional capital. As you will see later, the
potential benefits far outweigh any incremental risks, especially when appropriate
hedges and proper safeguards are incorporated.
What makes this technique so effective is that it exploits the fact that option prices do not
reflect the expected long-term growth rates of the underlying equities. The reason for this
is that standard option pricing formulas, used by option traders everywhere, do not
incorporate this variable. With short-term options, this doesn't matter. With long-term
options, however, this oversight often leads the market to over-
Page vii
value premiums. Taking advantage of this mispricing is the foundation of my strategy.
I have been using this technique for the past five years—very cautiously at first because
of the newness of these long-term options (they were invented in 1990) and the almost
complete lack of information regarding their safety and potential. It was this lack of
analysis that led me to start my own research into the realm of long-term equity options.
Having determined their relative risk/reward ratio, I am now very comfortable generating
several thousand dollars a month in premiums that I use to add to my stock positions. I
am often told that what I am doing is akin to what a fire or hazard insurance company
does, generating premiums and paying claims as they arise. A better analogy might be to
a title insurance company because with proper research, claims should rarely occur.
This book is divided into four sections: The first one consists of Chapters 1 through 5
and describes the basic approach in using long-term options to further investment
programs. The second section, Chapters 6 through 12, refines this approach and shows
how to institute controls to reduce risk. The potential reward and the long-term safety of
the basic approach and refinements are established through extensive computer
simulation and backtesting. This is accomplished by going back ten years and asking
what would have been the outcome if the various techniques had been applied in as
consistent a manner as possible during that period.
The third section, Chapters 13 through 15, contains the analytic formulas for the rapid
computation of volatility and option premiums for both European- and American-style
options. The 1997 Nobel prize in economics was awarded to Myron Scholes and Robert
Merton, who along with Fischer Black were the original developers of these formulas.
With minor variations, they are still used today for calculating option premiums by
market makers and option traders alike. Although college mathematics is needed to
understand the formulas, the short, simple algorithms given for their numerical
evaluation can be used by virtually anyone who knows BASIC or can set up a
spreadsheet on a personal computer. For readers without access to computer tools, there
are various appendices containing tables for looking up option premiums and assignment
probabilities.
Page viii
Finally, Chapters 16 and 17 contain suggested resources for additional information,
including Internet Web sites and capsule reviews of introductory, intermediate, and
advanced books on options.
The methods developed in this book are based on my three decades of investing in real
estate and the equities market, plus the modeling experience gained through the
development of analytic, decision-making tools for various agencies of the federal
government and numerous trade associations, research institutes, and private-sector
clients. My first book, Decision Making in Federal Real Estate: How the Government
Decides Whether and with Whom to Buy, Build or Lease, remains the classic in its field.
I wish to thank the various investment analysts and members of the brokerage industry
for their insightful comments and suggestions. These include Ed Elfenbein, publisher of
the Microcap Stock Digest, who reviewed and edited the first version of the book,
Buying Stocks without Money, and Charlie Meyers, senior vice president for investments
at Legg Mason Wood Walker, Inc., who introduced me to the world of options. Special
thanks to Cynthia Zigmund, editorial director at Dearborn Financial Publishing, Inc., for
her help in bringing this project to fruition. I am particularly grateful to the numerous
investors like myself that I have met in investment chat rooms on America Online. I
know them only by their Internet screen names, but their collective insights into the
stock and options markets added much to my own knowledge. More than that, I found
the instant feedback of such interactions to be invaluable as I bounced new ideas off a
jury of my peers and refined my own thoughts in the process. Finally, I owe special
thanks to my wife, Doris, for the encouragement she provided and sacrifices she made to
keep me at this task until the job was done.
Page 1
PART ONE—
THE BASIC APPROACH
Page 3
1—
Introduction
What Is an Option?
Although options are typically bought and sold through security dealers and brokers, it is
important to understand that options are not securities. Unlike stocks, warrants, or
corporate bonds, options are not authorized or issued by any company on its behalf.
Rather, an option is simply a contract between two parties, a buyer and a seller. The
buyer is often referred to as the owner or option holder, and the seller is often referred to
as the option writer. A call option gives the option holder the right to buy an asset at a
set price within a certain time, while a put option gives the option holder the right to sell
an asset at a set price within a certain time. In neither case is the option holder ever
obligated to buy or sell.
For an example of an option contract, suppose you're in the market for a new car. Sitting
there in the dealer's showroom is that spectacular model you'd love to own. Because it is
popular, there is little discount from the sticker price of $40,000. You tell the salesman
that you get your bonus in three months. Anxious to make a deal, he says, "Okay, the
price may wel