Visual Guide to
Options
Since 1996, Bloomberg Press has published books for finance professionals on investing, economics, and policy
affecting investors. Titles are written by leading practitioners and authorities, and have been translated into
more than 20 languages.
The Bloomberg Financial Series provides both core reference knowledge and actionable information for fi-
nance professionals. The books are written by experts familiar with the work flows, challenges, and demands of
investment professionals who trade the markets, manage money, and analyze investments in their capacity of
growing and protecting wealth, hedging risk, and generating revenue.
Books in the series include:
Visual Guide to Candlestick Charting by Michael Thomsett
Visual Guide to Municipal Bonds by Robert Doty
Visual Guide to Financial Markets by David Wilson
Visual Guide to Chart Patterns by Thomas N. Bulkowski
Visual Guide to ETFs by David Abner
Visual Guide to Options by Jared Levy
For more information, please visit our Web site at www.wiley.com/go/bloombergpress.
Visual Guide to
Options
Jared A. Levy
BLOOMBERG PRESS
An Imprint of
Cover image: Waves © Peter Firus/ istockphoto, chart courtesy of Jared Levy
Cover design: C. Wallace
Copyright ©2013 by Jared A. Levy. All rights reserved.
Published by John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Hoboken, New Jersey.
Published simultaneously in Canada.
No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means, electron-
ic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, scanning, or otherwise, except as permitted under Section 107 or 108 of the 1976 United
States Copyright Act, without either the prior written permission of the Publisher, or authorization through payment of the ap-
propriate per-copy fee to the Copyright Clearance Center, Inc., 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, (978) 750-8400, fax (978)
646-8600, or on the Web at www.copyright.com. Requests to the Publisher for permission should be addressed to the Permissions
Department, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 111 River Street, Hoboken, NJ 07030, (201) 748-6011, fax (201) 748-6008, or online at http://
www.wiley.com/go/permissions.
Limit of Liability/Disclaimer of Warranty: While the publisher and author have used their best efforts in preparing this book, they
make no representations or warranties with respect to the accuracy or completeness of the contents of this book and specifically
disclaim any implied warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. No warranty may be created or extended
by sales representatives or written sales materials. The advice and strategies contained herein may not be suitable for your
situation. You should consult with a professional where appropriate. Neither the publisher nor author shall be liable for any loss
of profit or any other commercial damages, including but not limited to special, incidental, consequential, or other damages.
All charts reprinted with permission from Bloomberg. Copyright 2012 Bloomberg L.P. All rights reserved.
For general information on our other products and services or for technical support, please contact our Customer Care
Department within the United States at (800) 762-2974, outside the United States at (317) 572-3993 or fax (317) 572-4002.
Wiley publishes in a variety of print and electronic formats and by print-on-demand. Some material included with standard print
versions of this book may not be included in e-books or in print-on-demand. If this book refers to media such as a CD or DVD
that is not included in the version you purchased, you may download this material at http://booksupport.wiley.com. For more
information about Wiley products, visit www.wiley.com.
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data:
Levy, Jared, 1976
Visual guide to options/Jared A. Levy.
p. cm. — (Bloomberg press series)
Includes index.
ISBN 978-1-118-19666-3 (pbk.); 978-1-118-22774-9 (ebk); 978-1-118-26531-4 (ebk);
978-1-118-24062-5 (ebk)
1. Options (Finance). I. Title.
HG6024.A3L484 2013
332.64´ 53—dc23
2012030699
Printed in the United States of America
10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1
Don’t Be Afraid to Take Risks
Load the ship and set out. No one knows for certain whether the vessel will
sink or reach the harbor. Cautious people say, “I’ll do nothing until I can be
sure.” Merchants know better. If you do nothing, you lose. Don’t be one of those
merchants who won’t risk the ocean.
—Rumi
Think Outside the Box
. . . a new type of thinking is essential if mankind is to
survive and move toward higher levels.
—Albert Einstein
Be Prepared
If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a
hundred battles. If you know yourself but not the enemy, for every victory gained
you will also suffer a defeat. If you know neither the enemy nor yourself, you will
succumb in every battle.
—Sun Tzu
Ask Questions
A wise man can learn more from a foolish question than a
fool can learn from a wise answer.
—Bruce Lee
Don’t Give Up
The world ain’t all sunshine and rainbows. It’s a very mean and nasty place and
I don’t care how tough you are it will beat you to your knees and keep you there
permanently if you let it. You, me, or nobody is gonna hit as hard as life. But it ain’t
about how hard ya hit. It’s about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward;
how much you can take and keep moving forward. That’s how winning is done!
—Rocky
Contents
How to Use This Book ix (cid:31) Chapter 5: Visualizing and Trading Vertical Spreads 233
Acknowledgments xi
(cid:31) Chapter 6: Visualizing and Trading Butterfl ies,
Introduction xiii
Condors, and Complex Spreads 287
(cid:31) Chapter 1: The World of Options 1
(cid:31) Chapter 7: Managing Your Risk: Tactics, Tips,
and Volatility Tricks 329
(cid:31) Chapter 2: Tools and Knowledge for Trading
Appendix: Bloomberg Functionality Cheat Sheet 375
Options Professionally 51
About the Author 377
(cid:31) Chapter 3: Visualizing the Greeks 105 Index 379
(cid:31) Chapter 4: Visualizing Basic Strategies:
Trading Calls and Puts 139
vii
How  ﻿to  ﻿Use  ﻿This  ﻿Book
The Visual Guide series is meant to serve as the all- ■ Do It Yourself: Worksheets, formulas, and
encompassing, yet easy-to-follow, guide on today’s calculations.
most relevant fi nance and trading topics. Th e content ■ Bloomberg Functionality Cheat Sheet: For
truly lives up to the series name by being highly visual; Bloomberg terminal users, a back-of-the-book
all charts are in color and presented in a large format summary of relevant functions for the topics and
for ease of use and readability. Other strong visual at- tools discussed.
tributes include consistent elements that function as
For e-reader users, the Visual Guide series is avail-
additional learning aids for the reader:
able as an enhanced e-book and off ers special features,
■ Key Points: Primary ideas and takeaways, designed like an interactive Test Yourself section where readers
to help the reader skim through defi nitions and can test their newly honed knowledge and skills. Th e
text. enhanced e-book version also includes video tutori-
■ Defi nitions: Terminology and technical concepts als and special pop-up features. It can be purchased
that arise in the discussion. wherever e-books are sold.
■ Step-by-Step: Tutorials designed to ensure that
readers understand and can execute each section
of a multiphase process.
ix
Acknowledgments
Nothing truly meaningful in life is created or even me a chance to get a better view of the beautiful exis-
possible if not for the trials and tribulations that tence I have been fortunate enough to live.
shape us as humans. Th ank you.
I’m most gracious to life’s mountains that have
stood before me, challenged me, and ultimately given
xi
Introduction
My goal for this guide is to allow you to open to techniques, and processes in this book are not the
just about any point in the book and fi nd a use- only solution, but they have worked for me for many
ful tip, method, or actionable idea that you can ap- years and may make a good addition to your existing
ply immediately, without having to go back and read repertoire. No one has “the secret sauce”; you simply
too far. need a viable action plan and a sound risk and psy-
Most of us believe we are free thinkers, but it’s chological management system.
important to realize that on some level, information Although there is no perfect way to trade options,
fl ows into our minds through fi lters or biased chan- there are many wrong ways to do it. I learned some
nels. Th e specifi c publications you read or websites valuable (and costly) lessons along the way; I hope to
you browse dictate your information sources. As you show you where I screwed it up so that you can avoid
structure your investment thesis and strategy, don’t the major pitfalls of bad options trading.
ever be afraid to break your normal pattern and look Th is book expands on the focus of my fi rst book,
for alternative methods of gathering information, sta- Your Options Handbook, and details more of the nu-
tistics, and strategy. anced techniques and analysis that professionals use
Depending on your particular exposure or experi- to get an edge on the market. Th e goal of this text is
ence with trading options, you are going to have pre- to help you to truly understand risk, order fl ow, and
conceived notions about how useful they are to you. volume as well as execution and strategy.
Even if you have been an extremely successful options Even with Bloomberg being one of the best infor-
trader, keep your mind open to looking at the option mation sources out there, don’t be discouraged if you
markets and their risk in a diff erent way. Th e ideas, don’t have access to a terminal. Th e bulk of strategies,
xiii
xiv ■ Introduction  ﻿   ﻿
tools, and techniques contained in these pages can be completely comfortable with a concept or strategy,
utilized and applied in many forms. be sure to research it further and ask questions! I am
Also realize that this book couldn’t possibly con- available at www.jaredlevy.com if you need a help-
tain every single thing you need to know about op- ing hand or if you are looking for further depth on a
tions, so if you have a question or if you don’t feel subject.
Visual Guide to
Options
1111
C H A P T E R
The World of Options
There are infi nite ways that options can be utilized the previous day, I could reset and remain fl exible in
in your investment portfolio. Whether you are an my strategy.
individual writing covered calls on 200 shares of IBM, Option traders tend to have an “if, then” attitude
a hedge fund manager with billions in assets that need because of our ability to be elastic with our hypoth-
to be protected against volatility or “tail risk,” or any- esis and adjust positions as events, news, and data
where in between, there is a place for options in your change. Th is mind-set is usually in stark contrast to
account, period. a regular stock trader, who needs to be more rigid in
To get the most from the options markets, it is best predictions and theses. I certainly prefer the fl exibility
to fully understand the underlying securities from options off er, because I still have yet to meet a person
which they are valued and then take on the options who knows exactly where a stock is going, not to men-
themselves. Th e trends, abnormalities, and patterns tion that I always like contingency plans. As an option
that emerge in the options markets get their cues from trader you always have the choice of getting or giving
KEY POINT:
their underlying security. Because of this, you must odds depending on the situation.
never look at an option (strategy) in a vacuum. As a professional with a trained eye I can look at an Options traders can use certain
strategies to take a neutral posi-
When I was trading on the fl oor, I tended to end option chain on just about any security and surmise a
tion in a stock or can employ pro-
my trading day delta-neutral—or not having a “di- gen